tutorial/chapter-0.md, before:

---
title: NativeScript Getting Started Guide
description: Learn the basics of how NativeScript works, how to set up your system, and how to create your first app
position: 1
previous_url: /start/getting-started
slug: tutorial
guide: true
environment: nativescript
---

# NativeScript Getting Started Guide

Welcome to the NativeScript Getting Started Guide. In this tutorial you'll use NativeScript, a cross-platform JavaScript framework for building native mobile apps, to build an iOS and Android app from scratch.

## Table of contents

- [0.1: What is NativeScript?](#01-what-is-nativescript)
- [0.2: Prerequisites](#02-prerequisites)
- [0.3: Installation](#03-installation)

## 0.1: What is NativeScript?

<div class="intro-box">
  <img src="../img/cli-getting-started/angular/chapter0/NativeScript_logo.png" class="plain" alt="NativeScript logo">
  <p><a href="https://www.nativescript.org/">NativeScript</a> is a free and open source framework for building native iOS and Android apps using JavaScript and CSS. NativeScript renders UIs with the native platform’s rendering engine—no <a href="http://developer.telerik.com/featured/what-is-a-webview/">WebViews</a>—resulting in native-like performance and UX.</p>
</div>

NativeScript provides a best-of-both-worlds development experience. The NativeScript cross-platform JavaScript modules give you the convenience of writing iOS and Android apps from a single JavaScript codebase, while the NativeScript runtimes give you the power of accessing native APIs, SDKs, and frameworks when you need them—all without needing to open Xcode or Android Studio.

## 0.2: Prerequisites

This guide assumes that you have some basic knowledge of JavaScript, CSS, and your development machine’s terminal. More specifically:

* **JavaScript**: You should know basic JavaScript concepts, such as how functions, if statements, and loops work.
* **CSS**: You should know how to write simple CSS selectors, and know how to apply CSS rules as name/value pairs.
* **The terminal**: You should know how to open a terminal or command-line prompt on your development machine, how to change directories, and how to execute commands.
* **A text editor or IDE**: You should know the basics of your text editor or IDE of choice. You can use any text editor to build NativeScript apps.

## 0.3: Installation

In order to start this tutorial you need to have the NativeScript CLI (command-line interface) installed on your development machine, which you can do using the link below.

* [Complete the NativeScript installation guide](/start/quick-setup)

> **TIP**: Setting up your machine for native development can be tricky, especially if you’re new to mobile development. If you get stuck, or if you have questions while going through these instructions, the [NativeScript community forum](http://forum.nativescript.org/) is a great place to get help.

With that out of the way, let’s get started building apps with NativeScript!

<div class="next-chapter-link-container">
  <a href="chapter-1">Continue to Chapter 1—Getting Up and Running</a>
</div>

Commit message:

Adding link to free NativeScripting video course 📹

tutorial/chapter-0.md, after:

---
title: NativeScript Getting Started Guide
description: Learn the basics of how NativeScript works, how to set up your system, and how to create your first app
position: 1
previous_url: /start/getting-started
slug: tutorial
guide: true
environment: nativescript
---

# NativeScript Getting Started Guide

Welcome to the NativeScript Getting Started Guide. In this tutorial you'll use NativeScript, a cross-platform JavaScript framework for building native mobile apps, to build an iOS and Android app from scratch.

## Table of contents

- [0.1: What is NativeScript?](#01-what-is-nativescript)
- [0.2: Prerequisites](#02-prerequisites)
- [0.3: Installation](#03-installation)

> **TIP**: If you’re a video learner, the third-party site NativeScripting has a [free video course](https://nativescripting.com/course/nativescript-core-getting-started-guide) that walks you through this guide step by step.

## 0.1: What is NativeScript?

<div class="intro-box">
  <img src="../img/cli-getting-started/angular/chapter0/NativeScript_logo.png" class="plain" alt="NativeScript logo">
  <p><a href="https://www.nativescript.org/">NativeScript</a> is a free and open source framework for building native iOS and Android apps using JavaScript and CSS. NativeScript renders UIs with the native platform’s rendering engine—no <a href="http://developer.telerik.com/featured/what-is-a-webview/">WebViews</a>—resulting in native-like performance and UX.</p>
</div>

NativeScript provides a best-of-both-worlds development experience. The NativeScript cross-platform JavaScript modules give you the convenience of writing iOS and Android apps from a single JavaScript codebase, while the NativeScript runtimes give you the power of accessing native APIs, SDKs, and frameworks when you need them—all without needing to open Xcode or Android Studio.

## 0.2: Prerequisites

This guide assumes that you have some basic knowledge of JavaScript, CSS, and your development machine’s terminal. More specifically:

* **JavaScript**: You should know basic JavaScript concepts, such as how functions, if statements, and loops work.
* **CSS**: You should know how to write simple CSS selectors, and know how to apply CSS rules as name/value pairs.
* **The terminal**: You should know how to open a terminal or command-line prompt on your development machine, how to change directories, and how to execute commands.
* **A text editor or IDE**: You should know the basics of your text editor or IDE of choice. You can use any text editor to build NativeScript apps.

## 0.3: Installation

In order to start this tutorial you need to have the NativeScript CLI (command-line interface) installed on your development machine, which you can do using the link below.

* [Complete the NativeScript installation guide](/start/quick-setup)

> **TIP**: Setting up your machine for native development can be tricky, especially if you’re new to mobile development. If you get stuck, or if you have questions while going through these instructions, the [NativeScript community forum](http://forum.nativescript.org/) is a great place to get help.

With that out of the way, let’s get started building apps with NativeScript!

<div class="next-chapter-link-container">
  <a href="chapter-1">Continue to Chapter 1—Getting Up and Running</a>
</div>
