tutorial/ng-chapter-7.md, before:

---
title: Chapter 7—Next Steps
position: 8
guide: true
environment: angular
---

# Chapter 7—Next Steps

Sadly our tutorial is now complete, but your journey with NativeScript is just beginning. Let’s look at the some steps you can take to build your next app with NativeScript.

## Table of contents

- [7.1: Join the NativeScript community](#71-join-the-nativescript-community)
- [7.2: Start your own app](#72-start-your-own-app)
- [7.3: Bookmark NativeScript learning resources](#73-bookmark-nativescript-learning-resources)
- [7.4: Let us know what you think](#74-let-us-know-what-you-think)

## 7.1: Join the NativeScript community

Regardless of what you choose to do next with NativeScript, joining the NativeScript community is a great way to keep up with the latest and greatest in the NativeScript world. Here are some ways you can get involved:

- **Join the [NativeScript Community Slack channel](http://developer.telerik.com/wp-login.php?action=slack-invitation)**. The channel is a great place to ask questions, and chat with others in the NativeScript community.
- **Follow [@nativescript](https://twitter.com/nativescript) on Twitter** for updates on all things NativeScript.
- **Sign up for the NativeScript newsletter on [nativescript.org](https://www.nativescript.org/)**. The newsletter will deliver NativeScript articles, news, plugin updates, and more straight to your inbox.

## 7.2: Start your own app

Although you’re welcome to use Groceries as the basis of your own app, if you want to start a new app from scratch, the NativeScript CLI provides a number of built-in starting points. For example, you can start a new “hello world” app by running the `tns create` command:

```
tns create my-app-name --template tns-template-hello-world-ng
```

If you want to start from a slightly more complete starting point, the `tns create` command also has additional values you can use with the `--template` option. For instance, the following command creates a NativeScript project with tab navigation already setup:

```
tns create MyNextGreatApp --template tns-template-tab-navigation
```

> **TIP**: A number of other templates are available to use with the `--template` option, including TypeScript templates and more. Refer to [the full list of official templates](https://www.tjvantoll.com/2016/02/22/creating-nativescript-templates/) at any time.

Regardless of which template you choose to start from, once you have your app up and running, let’s look at some of the resources you can use as you develop.

## 7.3: Bookmark NativeScript learning resources

There are a variety of NativeScript learning materials that go above and beyond what was offered in this tutorial. You may wish to refer to any of the following as you take your app from a prototype to the app stores:

- The NativeScript team provides a series of [real-world app samples](https://www.nativescript.org/app-samples-with-code) that are all open source on GitHub. These samples are great to reference as you’re developing your application.
- The [NativeScript resources page](https://www.nativescript.org/resources) lists further NativeScript learning material, such as training, books, and screencasts.
- [NativeScript Snacks](http://www.nativescriptsnacks.com/) is a collection of bite-sized video tutorials—perfect for learning how a NativeScript concept works quickly.
- The NativeScript documentation site has detailed guides on topics that were out of scope for this guide, including [unit testing](http://docs.nativescript.org/core-concepts/testing), [debugging](http://docs.nativescript.org/core-concepts/debugging), [transpiling Babel or TypeScript code](http://docs.nativescript.org/core-concepts/transpilers), and [publishing to the iOS App Store](http://docs.nativescript.org/core-concepts/publishing-ios-apps) and [Google Play](http://docs.nativescript.org/core-concepts/publishing-android-apps).

## 7.4: Let us know what you think

Finally, we’d love if you could take a minute to tell us what you thought about the this guide. Your feedback helps us make this tutorial better.

<iframe src="https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1r0q8YJ7yzXcDClfu29FTFITvU1_x-2MdGjZBMPrSXCw/viewform?embedded=true" width="760" height="1300" style="max-width: 100%;" frameborder="0" marginheight="0" marginwidth="0">Loading...</iframe>

Commit message:

Getting started guide: Use the new --ng option for creating apps

tutorial/ng-chapter-7.md, after:

---
title: Chapter 7—Next Steps
position: 8
guide: true
environment: angular
---

# Chapter 7—Next Steps

Sadly our tutorial is now complete, but your journey with NativeScript is just beginning. Let’s look at the some steps you can take to build your next app with NativeScript.

## Table of contents

- [7.1: Join the NativeScript community](#71-join-the-nativescript-community)
- [7.2: Start your own app](#72-start-your-own-app)
- [7.3: Bookmark NativeScript learning resources](#73-bookmark-nativescript-learning-resources)
- [7.4: Let us know what you think](#74-let-us-know-what-you-think)

## 7.1: Join the NativeScript community

Regardless of what you choose to do next with NativeScript, joining the NativeScript community is a great way to keep up with the latest and greatest in the NativeScript world. Here are some ways you can get involved:

- **Join the [NativeScript Community Slack channel](http://developer.telerik.com/wp-login.php?action=slack-invitation)**. The channel is a great place to ask questions, and chat with others in the NativeScript community.
- **Follow [@nativescript](https://twitter.com/nativescript) on Twitter** for updates on all things NativeScript.
- **Sign up for the NativeScript newsletter on [nativescript.org](https://www.nativescript.org/)**. The newsletter will deliver NativeScript articles, news, plugin updates, and more straight to your inbox.

## 7.2: Start your own app

Although you’re welcome to use Groceries as the basis of your own app, if you want to start a new app from scratch, the NativeScript CLI provides a `--ng` option for starting apps with TypeScript and Angular preconfigured. For example, the following command creates an app named “MyNextGreatApp”:

```
tns create MyNextGreatApp --ng
```

Once you have your app up and running, let’s look at some of the resources you can use as you develop.

## 7.3: Bookmark NativeScript learning resources

There are a variety of NativeScript learning materials that go above and beyond what was offered in this tutorial. You may wish to refer to any of the following as you take your app from a prototype to the app stores:

- The NativeScript team provides a series of [real-world app samples](https://www.nativescript.org/app-samples-with-code) that are all open source on GitHub. These samples are great to reference as you’re developing your application.
- The [NativeScript resources page](https://www.nativescript.org/resources) lists further NativeScript learning material, such as training, books, and screencasts.
- [NativeScript Snacks](http://www.nativescriptsnacks.com/) is a collection of bite-sized video tutorials—perfect for learning how a NativeScript concept works quickly.
- The NativeScript documentation site has detailed guides on topics that were out of scope for this guide, including [unit testing](http://docs.nativescript.org/core-concepts/testing), [debugging](http://docs.nativescript.org/core-concepts/debugging), [transpiling Babel or TypeScript code](http://docs.nativescript.org/core-concepts/transpilers), and [publishing to the iOS App Store](http://docs.nativescript.org/core-concepts/publishing-ios-apps) and [Google Play](http://docs.nativescript.org/core-concepts/publishing-android-apps).

## 7.4: Let us know what you think

Finally, we’d love if you could take a minute to tell us what you thought about the this guide. Your feedback helps us make this tutorial better.

<iframe src="https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1r0q8YJ7yzXcDClfu29FTFITvU1_x-2MdGjZBMPrSXCw/viewform?embedded=true" width="760" height="1300" style="max-width: 100%;" frameborder="0" marginheight="0" marginwidth="0">Loading...</iframe>
