docs/tooling/visual-studio-code-extension.md, before:

---
title: NativeScript Extension for Visual Studio Code
description: How to install, set up, and use the NativeScript extension for Visual Studio Code.
position: 50
slug: nativescript-extension-for-visual-studio-code
previous_url: /core-concepts/visual-studio-code-extension
---

# NativeScript Extension for Visual Studio Code

## Installation

To install the [NativeScript extension for Visual Studio Code](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=Telerik.nativescript) open the Command Palette (`F1` or `Cmd+Shift+P`) and run `Extensions: Install Extension` command, then search for 'NativeScript' and choose it from the list.

![Installing the NativeScript extension for Visual Studio Code](../img/visual-studio-code-extension/install.png)

After the installation completes, the extension appears in the list of installed extensions. You can see it if you run `Extensions: Show Installed Extensions` command from the Command Palette.

## Debugging

Open your application root folder, created with `tns create` command, in Visual Studio Code.

### Generate launch configurations

Click the debugging icon ![VS Code debug panel](../img/visual-studio-code-extension/debug-panel.png) in the View bar, and then click the gear icon ![gear icon](../img/visual-studio-code-extension/gear-icon.png) to choose the NativeScript debug environment. A `launch.json` file should be generated in your `.vscode` folder, containing 4 default launch configurations - `Launch on iOS`, `Attach on iOS`, `Launch on Android` and `Attach on Android`. You can always add your own debug configuration or alter the existing ones just by editing the `launch.json` file.

![Default NativeScript debug configurations in Visual Studio Code](../img/visual-studio-code-extension/configurations-menu.png)

### Launch an application with the debugger

Choose one of the launch configurations (e.g., `Launch on iOS`) and press the `Start Debugging` button next to the menu. This will trigger a NativeScript CLI command which will build, deploy and run your app in an iOS device or emulator and attach the Visual Studio Code debugger. If you want the execution to stop on the first JavaScript/TypeScript statement, functionality set the `stopOnEntry` flag to `true` in  your `launch.json` configuration.

Once the debugger is attached you can inspect scope variables, set breakpoints, watch expressions, execute code while the app is paused on a breakpoint etc. You can find more information about the debugging support in Visual Studio Code in the [VS Code Debugging Guide](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/debugging).

What's more awesome is that the default launch configurations take advantage of the NativeScrfunctionality. Therefore, while the VS Code debugger is attached, every change to the app's source will trigger a livesync (after saving the altered file) which will update and restart the target application while the VS Code debugger is automatically reattached to the new app instance preserving all breakpoints and watched expressions. The watching feature can be disabled by setting the `watch` flag to `false` in your `launch.json` configurations.

### Attach the debugger to an already running app

If you have an already running NativeScript application in your emulator or device, you can attach the VS Code debugger to it, without even restarting the app. Just select the desired attach configuration through the debug configuration menu and press the start button.

### Debug TypeScript

If you are writing your app in TypeScript, you have fully functional debugging support in Visual Studio Code. To debug TypeScript, make sure the TS compiler is producing source maps by setting `"sourceMap": true"` in your `tsconfig.json`.

> Using the [TypeScript plugin for NativeScript](https://github.com/NativeScript/nativescript-dev-typescript) is strongly recommended instead of manually setting up the TypeScript compiler options and build tasks. The plugin handles the creation of all the configuration settings and guarantees smooth integration with Visual Studio Code.

### Debug Webpack

When using Webpack to bundle your application, you can debug your app with VSCode and `nativescript-dev-webpack@0.15.0` and above. To enable debugging for Webpack bundled apps, you need the following setup:

 - Update the VSCode extension (https://www.nativescript.org/nativescript-for-visual-studio-code) to the latest version.
 - Make sure the version of `nativescript-dev-webpack` is **0.15.0 or above**.
 - Run `npm i nativescript-dev-webpack@latest --save-dev` and if needed create/update the `webpack.config.js` (upgrade details [here](../releases/upgrade-instructions.md)). 
 - Open the `launch.json` file in your VSCode and add the `--bundle` flag to the `tnsArgs` key for the desired debug option.

Example configuration with `"tnsArgs":["--bundle"]`:
```JSON
{
    "name": "Launch on Android",
    "type": "nativescript",
    "request": "launch",
    "platform": "android",
    "appRoot": "${workspaceRoot}",
    "sourceMaps": true,
    "watch": true,
    "sourceMapPathOverrides": {
        "webpack:///*": "${workspaceRoot}/app/*"
    },
    "tnsArgs":["--bundle"]
},
```
Note that the VSCode will autogenerate the `sourceMapPathOverrides` key.

 - Start debugging with VSCode.

### Supply additional arguments to the debug command

Under the hood, starting a particular debug configuration executes the `tns debug` command with various arguments. You can append additional arguments by supplying them in the `tnsArgs` property of a debug configuration definition in `launch.json`. For example, if you add `"tnsArgs": "--log=trace"` in the `Launch on iOS` configuration, in the background VS Code will execute the `tns debug ios --no-client --log=trace` command, which will give you more verbose information in the Debug Console.

### Turn on diagnostic logging

If the `diagnosticLogging` flag for a particular debug configuration in `launch.json` file is set to `true` (its default value is `false`), diagnostic messages will be logged on the debugger console after attaching the debugger to the NativeScript application. This is useful for rough debugging of the extension itself because all sent/received messages that are part of the communication between the frontend and the backend are logged.

## Use NativeScript-specific commands

Type `nativescript` in the Command Palette, and you will see all NativeScript-specific commands. Currently,  there are only two of the, but the list will grow in the future.

![NativeScript commands](../img/visual-studio-code-extension/nativescript-commands.png)

The `Run on Android/iOS` command is the equivalent of `tns run` in the NativeScript CLI. It lets you build, deploy and run your app on an emulator/device directly from Visual Studio Code.

## NativeScript CLI version detection

The extension depends on a globally installed NativeScript CLI. It will show an error message if it can't find it.

![NativeScript not found](../img/visual-studio-code-extension/nativescript-not-found-error-message.png)

> The extension requires a specific NativeScript CLI version and if you have another version installed, you will see a warning message. The extension is likely to work with the unsupported version, but it is recommended to update the NativeScript CLI or the VS Code extension.

## Known issues
 * [The variables pane on Android doesn't work](https://github.com/NativeScript/nativescript-vscode-extension/issues/21).
 * [To be able to debug, the opened workspace must be the app root folder.](https://github.com/NativeScript/nativescript-vscode-extension/issues/104)

Commit message:

SEO optimization: added tags and updated the titles and descriptions of the 50 most visited pages

docs/tooling/visual-studio-code-extension.md, after:

---
title: NativeScript Extension for Visual Studio Code
description: Learn how to install and configure the NativeScript extension for Visual Studio Code and use it to develop and debug your mobile applications.
position: 50
tags: nativescript extension, visual studio code, extension for vs code
slug: nativescript-extension-for-visual-studio-code
previous_url: /core-concepts/visual-studio-code-extension
---

# NativeScript Extension for Visual Studio Code

## Installation

To install the [NativeScript extension for Visual Studio Code](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=Telerik.nativescript) open the Command Palette (`F1` or `Cmd+Shift+P`) and run `Extensions: Install Extension` command, then search for 'NativeScript' and choose it from the list.

![Installing the NativeScript extension for Visual Studio Code](../img/visual-studio-code-extension/install.png)

After the installation completes, the extension appears in the list of installed extensions. You can see it if you run `Extensions: Show Installed Extensions` command from the Command Palette.

## Debugging

Open your application root folder, created with `tns create` command, in Visual Studio Code.

### Generate launch configurations

Click the debugging icon ![VS Code debug panel](../img/visual-studio-code-extension/debug-panel.png) in the View bar, and then click the gear icon ![gear icon](../img/visual-studio-code-extension/gear-icon.png) to choose the NativeScript debug environment. A `launch.json` file should be generated in your `.vscode` folder, containing 4 default launch configurations - `Launch on iOS`, `Attach on iOS`, `Launch on Android` and `Attach on Android`. You can always add your own debug configuration or alter the existing ones just by editing the `launch.json` file.

![Default NativeScript debug configurations in Visual Studio Code](../img/visual-studio-code-extension/configurations-menu.png)

### Launch an application with the debugger

Choose one of the launch configurations (e.g., `Launch on iOS`) and press the `Start Debugging` button next to the menu. This will trigger a NativeScript CLI command which will build, deploy and run your app in an iOS device or emulator and attach the Visual Studio Code debugger. If you want the execution to stop on the first JavaScript/TypeScript statement, functionality set the `stopOnEntry` flag to `true` in  your `launch.json` configuration.

Once the debugger is attached you can inspect scope variables, set breakpoints, watch expressions, execute code while the app is paused on a breakpoint etc. You can find more information about the debugging support in Visual Studio Code in the [VS Code Debugging Guide](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/debugging).

What's more awesome is that the default launch configurations take advantage of the NativeScrfunctionality. Therefore, while the VS Code debugger is attached, every change to the app's source will trigger a livesync (after saving the altered file) which will update and restart the target application while the VS Code debugger is automatically reattached to the new app instance preserving all breakpoints and watched expressions. The watching feature can be disabled by setting the `watch` flag to `false` in your `launch.json` configurations.

### Attach the debugger to an already running app

If you have an already running NativeScript application in your emulator or device, you can attach the VS Code debugger to it, without even restarting the app. Just select the desired attach configuration through the debug configuration menu and press the start button.

### Debug TypeScript

If you are writing your app in TypeScript, you have fully functional debugging support in Visual Studio Code. To debug TypeScript, make sure the TS compiler is producing source maps by setting `"sourceMap": true"` in your `tsconfig.json`.

> Using the [TypeScript plugin for NativeScript](https://github.com/NativeScript/nativescript-dev-typescript) is strongly recommended instead of manually setting up the TypeScript compiler options and build tasks. The plugin handles the creation of all the configuration settings and guarantees smooth integration with Visual Studio Code.

### Debug Webpack

When using Webpack to bundle your application, you can debug your app with VSCode and `nativescript-dev-webpack@0.15.0` and above. To enable debugging for Webpack bundled apps, you need the following setup:

 - Update the VSCode extension (https://www.nativescript.org/nativescript-for-visual-studio-code) to the latest version.
 - Make sure the version of `nativescript-dev-webpack` is **0.15.0 or above**.
 - Run `npm i nativescript-dev-webpack@latest --save-dev` and if needed create/update the `webpack.config.js` (upgrade details [here](../releases/upgrade-instructions.md)). 
 - Open the `launch.json` file in your VSCode and add the `--bundle` flag to the `tnsArgs` key for the desired debug option.

Example configuration with `"tnsArgs":["--bundle"]`:
```JSON
{
    "name": "Launch on Android",
    "type": "nativescript",
    "request": "launch",
    "platform": "android",
    "appRoot": "${workspaceRoot}",
    "sourceMaps": true,
    "watch": true,
    "sourceMapPathOverrides": {
        "webpack:///*": "${workspaceRoot}/app/*"
    },
    "tnsArgs":["--bundle"]
},
```
Note that the VSCode will autogenerate the `sourceMapPathOverrides` key.

 - Start debugging with VSCode.

### Supply additional arguments to the debug command

Under the hood, starting a particular debug configuration executes the `tns debug` command with various arguments. You can append additional arguments by supplying them in the `tnsArgs` property of a debug configuration definition in `launch.json`. For example, if you add `"tnsArgs": "--log=trace"` in the `Launch on iOS` configuration, in the background VS Code will execute the `tns debug ios --no-client --log=trace` command, which will give you more verbose information in the Debug Console.

### Turn on diagnostic logging

If the `diagnosticLogging` flag for a particular debug configuration in `launch.json` file is set to `true` (its default value is `false`), diagnostic messages will be logged on the debugger console after attaching the debugger to the NativeScript application. This is useful for rough debugging of the extension itself because all sent/received messages that are part of the communication between the frontend and the backend are logged.

## Use NativeScript-specific commands

Type `nativescript` in the Command Palette, and you will see all NativeScript-specific commands. Currently,  there are only two of the, but the list will grow in the future.

![NativeScript commands](../img/visual-studio-code-extension/nativescript-commands.png)

The `Run on Android/iOS` command is the equivalent of `tns run` in the NativeScript CLI. It lets you build, deploy and run your app on an emulator/device directly from Visual Studio Code.

## NativeScript CLI version detection

The extension depends on a globally installed NativeScript CLI. It will show an error message if it can't find it.

![NativeScript not found](../img/visual-studio-code-extension/nativescript-not-found-error-message.png)

> The extension requires a specific NativeScript CLI version and if you have another version installed, you will see a warning message. The extension is likely to work with the unsupported version, but it is recommended to update the NativeScript CLI or the VS Code extension.

## Known issues
 * [The variables pane on Android doesn't work](https://github.com/NativeScript/nativescript-vscode-extension/issues/21).
 * [To be able to debug, the opened workspace must be the app root folder.](https://github.com/NativeScript/nativescript-vscode-extension/issues/104)
