core-concepts/transpilers.md, before:

---
title: Transpilers
description: Learn how to enable TypeScript and other transpiler support in your project.
position: 9
slug: transpilers
previous_url: /transpilers
---

# Using transpilers in NativeScript

Transpilers allow you to develop your application in languages other than JavaScript, CSS and XML. NativeScript applications can be developed more comfortably when transpilers are used in the project. NativeScript projects support two transpilers out-of-the-box - TypeScript and Babel, although any other transpiler can be integrated through the necessary hooks.

## Installing TypeScript

Run the following command to install TypeScript support into your project:

```Shell
tns install typescript
```

The above command installs the TypeScript compiler and the `nativescript-dev-typescript` npm module as dev dependencies. The latter installs the necessary `prepare` and `livesync` hooks into your project, so that the TypeScript files in your project are automatically transpiled during build and when live-syncing.

It also creates a `tsconfig.json` file in the root of your project that contains the compiler configuration. You can edit it to change the configuration.

If you want to change the version of the TypeScript compiler used in your project, simply install the version you want into your project through npm.

## Installing Babel

Run the following command to install Babel support into your project:

```Shell
tns install babel
```

The above command installs the Babel compiler and the `nativescript-dev-babel` npm module as a dev dependencies. The latter installs a `prepare` hook into your project, that transpiles your JavaScript files with Babel during build and when live-syncing.

If you want to change the version of the Babel compiler used in your project, simply install the version you want into your project through npm.

If you want to configure Babel, create a `.babelrc` file in the root of your project according to [spec](https://babeljs.io/docs/usage/babelrc/).

## Installing other transpilers

Transpiler support can be extended through the use of hooks. The easiest way to distribute transpiler hooks is by means of npm modules. You can use the implementation of the TypeScript and Babel hooks as reference and grok the [nativescript-hook module](https://github.com/NativeScript/nativescript-hook) that provides common hook installation support to transpiler authors.

Commit message:

added note about TypeScript files usage in Transpilers

core-concepts/transpilers.md, after:

---
title: Transpilers
description: Learn how to enable TypeScript and other transpiler support in your project.
position: 9
slug: transpilers
previous_url: /transpilers
---

# Using transpilers in NativeScript

Transpilers allow you to develop your application in languages other than JavaScript, CSS and XML. NativeScript applications can be developed more comfortably when transpilers are used in the project. NativeScript projects support two transpilers out-of-the-box - TypeScript and Babel, although any other transpiler can be integrated through the necessary hooks.

## Installing TypeScript

Run the following command to install TypeScript support into your project:

```Shell
tns install typescript
```

The above command installs the TypeScript compiler and the `nativescript-dev-typescript` npm module as dev dependencies. The latter installs the necessary `prepare` and `livesync` hooks into your project, so that the TypeScript files in your project are automatically transpiled during build and when live-syncing.

> Note: When working in TypeScript enabled project, the user should make code behind changes in `*.ts` files. Any changes made in the respective `*.js` files will be dismissed when the app is transpiled.
The same rule applies to all NativeScript + Angular-2 projects as they have TypeScript transpiler installed by default.

It also creates a `tsconfig.json` file in the root of your project that contains the compiler configuration. You can edit it to change the configuration.

If you want to change the version of the TypeScript compiler used in your project, simply install the version you want into your project through npm.

## Installing Babel

Run the following command to install Babel support into your project:

```Shell
tns install babel
```

The above command installs the Babel compiler and the `nativescript-dev-babel` npm module as a dev dependencies. The latter installs a `prepare` hook into your project, that transpiles your JavaScript files with Babel during build and when live-syncing.

If you want to change the version of the Babel compiler used in your project, simply install the version you want into your project through npm.

If you want to configure Babel, create a `.babelrc` file in the root of your project according to [spec](https://babeljs.io/docs/usage/babelrc/).

## Installing other transpilers

Transpiler support can be extended through the use of hooks. The easiest way to distribute transpiler hooks is by means of npm modules. You can use the implementation of the TypeScript and Babel hooks as reference and grok the [nativescript-hook module](https://github.com/NativeScript/nativescript-hook) that provides common hook installation support to transpiler authors.
