animation.md, before:

---
nav-title: Animation
title: "UI: Animation"
description: Learn how to animate view properties.
position: 18
---

# Animation API

## AnimationDefinition Interface
The [`AnimationDefinition`](ApiReference/ui/animation/AnimationDefinition.md) interface is central for defining an animation for **one or more properties** of a **single** [`View`](ApiReference/ui/core/View.md). The animatable properties are:
 - opacity
 - backgroundColor
 - translateX and translateY
 - scaleX and scaleY
 - rotate

The [`AnimationDefinition`](ApiReference/ui/animation/AnimationDefinition.md) interface has the following members:
 - target: The view whose property is to be animated.
 - opacity: Animates the opacity of the view. Value should be a number between 0.0 and 1.0.
 - backgroundColor: Animates the backgroundColor of the view.
 - translate: Animates the translate affine transform of the view. Value should be a [`Pair`](ApiReference/ui/animation/Pair.md).
 - scale: Animates the scale affine transform of the view. Value should be a [`Pair`](ApiReference/ui/animation/Pair.md).
 - rotate: Animates the rotate affine transform of the view. Value should be a number specifying the rotation amount in degrees.
 - duration: The length of the animation in milliseconds. The default duration is 300 milliseconds.
 - delay: The amount of time, in milliseconds, to delay starting the animation.
 - iterations: Specifies how many times the animation should be played. Default is 1. iOS animations support fractional iterations, i.e. 1.5. To repeat an animation infinitely, use Number.POSITIVE_INFINITY
 - curve: An optional animation curve of type [`UIViewAnimationCurve`](https://developer.apple.com/library/ios/documentation/UIKit/Reference/UIView_Class/#//apple_ref/c/tdef/UIViewAnimationCurve) for iOS or [`android.animation.TimeInterpolator`](http://developer.android.com/reference/android/animation/TimeInterpolator.html) for Android.

 All members of the interface are **optional** and have default values with the following exceptions:
 - target is only optional when calling the **animate** method of a [`View`](ApiReference/ui/core/View.md) instance since it is set automatically for you.
 - You must specify at least one property among opacity, backgroundColor, scale, rotate and translate.

## Animation Class
The [`Animation`](ApiReference/ui/animation/Animation.md) class represents a **set** of one or more [`AnimationDefinitions`](ApiReference/ui/animation/AnimationDefinition.md which can be played either **simultaneously or sequentially**. **This class is typically used when you need to animate several views together**. The constructor of the the [`Animation`](ApiReference/ui/animation/Animation.md) class accepts an array of [`AnimationDefinitions`](ApiReference/ui/animation/AnimationDefinition.md) and a boolean parameter indicating whether to play the animations sequentially. Creating an instance of the [`Animation`](ApiReference/ui/animation/Animation.md) class does not start the animation playback. The class has four members:
 - play: a method that starts the animation and returns the instance it was called on for fluent animation chaining.
 - cancel: a void method which stops the animation.
 - finished: a promise which will be resolved when the animation finishes or rejected when the animation is cancelled or stops for another reason.
 - isPlaying: a boolean property returning true if the animation is currently playing.

## View.animate Method
In case you need to animate a **single** [`View`](ApiReference/ui/core/View.md) and you don't need to be able to **cancel** the animation, you can simply use the shortcut **View.animate** method which accepts an [`AnimationDefinition`](ApiReference/ui/animation/AnimationDefinition.md), immediately starts the animation and returns its finished promise.

# Examples

The full source code for all samples is located [`here`](https://github.com/NativeScript/animation-demo).

## Opacity
![opacity](img/modules/animation/opacity.gif "Opacity")
``` JavaScript
view.animate({
    opacity: 0,
    duration: 3000
});
```
``` TypeScript
view.animate({
    opacity: 0,
    duration: 3000
});
```

## Background Color
![background-color](img/modules/animation/background-color.gif "Background Color")
``` JavaScript
view.animate({
    backgroundColor: new colorModule.Color("#3D5AFE"),
    duration: 3000
});
```
``` TypeScript
view.animate({
    backgroundColor: new colorModule.Color("#3D5AFE"),
    duration: 3000
});
```

## Translate
![translate](img/modules/animation/translate.gif "Translate")
``` JavaScript
view.animate({
    translate: { x: 100, y: 100},
    duration: 3000
});
```
``` TypeScript
view.animate({
    translate: { x: 100, y: 100},
    duration: 3000
});
```

## Scale
![scale](img/modules/animation/scale.gif "Scale")
``` JavaScript
view.animate({
    scale: { x: 2, y: 2},
    duration: 3000
});
```
``` TypeScript
view.animate({
    scale: { x: 2, y: 2},
    duration: 3000
});
```

## Rotate
![rotate](img/modules/animation/rotate.gif "Rotate")
``` JavaScript
view.animate({
    rotate: 360,
    duration: 3000
});
```
``` TypeScript
view.animate({
    rotate: 360,
    duration: 3000
});
```

## Multiple Properties
![multiple-properties](img/modules/animation/multiple-properties.gif "Multiple Properties")
``` JavaScript
view.animate({
    backgroundColor: new color.Color("#3D5AFE"),
    opacity: 0.5,
    translate: { x: 100, y: 100 },
    rotate: 180,
    duration: 3000
});
```
``` TypeScript
view.animate({
    backgroundColor: new color.Color("#3D5AFE"),
    opacity: 0.5,
    translate: {x: 100, y: 100},
    rotate: 180,
    duration: 3000
});
```

## Chaining with Promises
![chaining-with-promises](img/modules/animation/chaining-with-promises.gif "Chaining with Promises")
``` JavaScript
view.animate({ opacity: 0 })
    .then(function () { return view.animate({ opacity: 1 }); })
    .then(function () { return view.animate({ translate: { x: 100, y: 100 } }); })
    .then(function () { return view.animate({ translate: { x: 0, y: 0 } }); })
    .then(function () { return view.animate({ scale: { x: 3, y: 3 } }); })
    .then(function () { return view.animate({ scale: { x: 1, y: 1 } }); })
    .then(function () { return view.animate({ rotate: 180 }); })
    .then(function () { return view.animate({ rotate: 0 }); })
    .then(function () {
    console.log("Animation finished");
})
    .catch(function (e) {
    console.log(e.message);
});
```
``` TypeScript
view.animate({ opacity: 0 })
    .then(() => view.animate({ opacity: 1 }))
    .then(() => view.animate({ translate: { x: 100, y: 100 } }))
    .then(() => view.animate({ translate: { x: 0, y: 0 } }))
    .then(() => view.animate({ scale: { x: 3, y: 3 } }))
    .then(() => view.animate({ scale: { x: 1, y: 1 } }))
    .then(() => view.animate({ rotate: 180 }))
    .then(() => view.animate({ rotate: 0 }))
    .then(() => {
    console.log("Animation finished");
  })
    .catch((e) => {
    console.log(e.message);
  });
```

## Chaining with Animation Set
![chaining-with-animation-set](img/modules/animation/chaining-with-animation-set.gif "Chaining with Animation Set")
``` JavaScript
var definitions = new Array();
definitions.push({ target: view1, translate: { x: 200, y: 0 }, duration: 3000 });
definitions.push({ target: view2, translate: { x: 0, y: 200 }, duration: 3000 });
definitions.push({ target: view3, translate: { x: -200, y: 0 }, duration: 3000 });
definitions.push({ target: view4, translate: { x: 0, y: -200 }, duration: 3000 });
var playSequentially = true;
var animationSet = new animationModule.Animation(definitions, playSequentially);
animationSet.play().then(function () {
    console.log("Animation finished");
})
    .catch(function (e) {
    console.log(e.message);
});
```
``` TypeScript
var definitions = new Array<animationModule.AnimationDefinition>();
definitions.push({target: view1, translate: {x: 200, y: 0}, duration: 3000 });
definitions.push({target: view2, translate: {x: 0, y: 200}, duration: 3000 });
definitions.push({target: view3, translate: {x: -200, y: 0}, duration: 3000 });
definitions.push({target: view4, translate: {x: 0, y: -200}, duration: 3000 });
var playSequentially = true;
var animationSet = new animationModule.Animation(definitions, playSequentially);
animationSet.play().then(() => {
    console.log("Animation finished");
})
.catch((e) => {
    console.log(e.message);
});
```

## Multiple Views
![multiple-views](img/modules/animation/multiple-views.gif "Multiple Views")
``` JavaScript
var definitions = new Array();
var a1 = {
    target: view1,
    translate: { x: 200, y: 0 },
    duration: 3000
};
definitions.push(a1);
var a2 = {
    target: view2,
    translate: { x: 0, y: 200 },
    duration: 3000
};
definitions.push(a2);
var a3 = {
    target: view3,
    translate: { x: -200, y: 0 },
    duration: 3000
};
definitions.push(a3);
var a4 = {
    target: view4,
    translate: { x: 0, y: -200 },
    duration: 3000
};
definitions.push(a4);
var animationSet = new animationModule.Animation(definitions);
animationSet.play().then(function () {
    console.log("Animation finished");
})
    .catch(function (e) {
    console.log(e.message);
});
```
``` TypeScript
var definitions = new Array<animationModule.AnimationDefinition>();
var a1: animationModule.AnimationDefinition = {
    target: view1,
    translate: {x: 200, y: 0},
    duration: 3000
};
definitions.push(a1);

var a2: animationModule.AnimationDefinition = {
    target: view2,
    translate: {x: 0, y: 200},
    duration: 3000
};
definitions.push(a2);

var a3: animationModule.AnimationDefinition = {
    target: view3,
    translate: {x: -200, y: 0},
    duration: 3000
};
definitions.push(a3);

var a4: animationModule.AnimationDefinition = {
    target: view4,
    translate: {x: 0, y: -200},
    duration: 3000
};
definitions.push(a4);

var animationSet = new animationModule.Animation(definitions);

animationSet.play().then(() => {
    console.log("Animation finished");
})
.catch((e) => {
    console.log(e.message);
});
```

## Reusing Animations
![reusing](img/modules/animation/reusing.gif "Reusing Animations")
``` JavaScript
var animation1 = view.createAnimation({ opacity: 0 });
var animation2 = view.createAnimation({ opacity: 1 });
animation1.play()
    .then(function () { return animation2.play(); })
    .then(function () { return animation1.play(); })
    .then(function () { return animation2.play(); })
    .then(function () { return animation1.play(); })
    .then(function () { return animation2.play(); })
    .then(function () {
    console.log("Animation finished");
})
    .catch(function (e) {
    console.log(e.message);
});
```
``` TypeScript
var animation1 = view.createAnimation({opacity: 0});
var animation2 = view.createAnimation({opacity: 1});

animation1.play()
.then(()=>animation2.play())
.then(()=>animation1.play())
.then(()=>animation2.play())
.then(()=>animation1.play())
.then(()=>animation2.play())
.then(() => {
    console.log("Animation finished");
})
.catch((e) => {
    console.log(e.message);
});
```

## Slide-in Effect
![slide-in-effect](img/modules/animation/slide-in-effect.gif "Slide-in Effect")
``` JavaScript
var item = new imageModule.Image();
item.src = "~/res/icon_100x100.png";
item.width = 90;
item.height = 90;
item.style.margin = "5,5,5,5";
item.translateX = -300;
item.opacity = 0;
item.on("loaded", function (args) {
    args.object.animate({ translate: { x: 0, y: 0 }, opacity: 1 });
});
wrapLayout.addChild(item);
```
``` TypeScript
var item = new imageModule.Image();
item.src = "~/res/icon_100x100.png";
item.width = 90;
item.height = 90;
item.style.margin = "5,5,5,5";
item.translateX = -300;
item.opacity = 0;
item.on("loaded", (args: observable.EventData) => {
    (<viewModule.View>args.object).animate({translate: { x: 0, y: 0 }, opacity: 1});
});
wrapLayout.addChild(item);
```

## Infinite
![infinite](img/modules/animation/infinite.gif "Infinite")
``` JavaScript
animationSet = new animationModule.Animation([{
        target: view,
        rotate: 360,
        duration: 3000,
        iterations: Number.POSITIVE_INFINITY,
        curve: view.ios ? UIViewAnimationCurve.UIViewAnimationCurveLinear : new android.view.animation.LinearInterpolator
    }]);
animationSet.play().catch(function (e) {
    console.log("Animation stoppped!");
});
// Call animationSet.cancel() to stop it;
```
``` TypeScript
animationSet = new animationModule.Animation([{
    target: view,
    rotate: 360,
    duration: 3000,
    iterations: Number.POSITIVE_INFINITY,
    curve: view.ios ? UIViewAnimationCurve.UIViewAnimationCurveLinear : new android.view.animation.LinearInterpolator
}]);
animationSet.play().catch((e) => {
    console.log("Animation stoppped!");
});
// Call animationSet.cancel() to stop it;
```

Commit message:

Added a tip for Label.backgroundColor.

animation.md, after:

---
nav-title: Animation
title: "UI: Animation"
description: Learn how to animate view properties.
position: 18
---

# Animation API

## AnimationDefinition Interface
The [`AnimationDefinition`](ApiReference/ui/animation/AnimationDefinition.md) interface is central for defining an animation for **one or more properties** of a **single** [`View`](ApiReference/ui/core/View.md). The animatable properties are:
 - opacity
 - backgroundColor
 - translateX and translateY
 - scaleX and scaleY
 - rotate

The [`AnimationDefinition`](ApiReference/ui/animation/AnimationDefinition.md) interface has the following members:
 - target: The view whose property is to be animated.
 - opacity: Animates the opacity of the view. Value should be a number between 0.0 and 1.0.
 - backgroundColor: Animates the backgroundColor of the view.
 - translate: Animates the translate affine transform of the view. Value should be a [`Pair`](ApiReference/ui/animation/Pair.md).
 - scale: Animates the scale affine transform of the view. Value should be a [`Pair`](ApiReference/ui/animation/Pair.md).
 - rotate: Animates the rotate affine transform of the view. Value should be a number specifying the rotation amount in degrees.
 - duration: The length of the animation in milliseconds. The default duration is 300 milliseconds.
 - delay: The amount of time, in milliseconds, to delay starting the animation.
 - iterations: Specifies how many times the animation should be played. Default is 1. iOS animations support fractional iterations, i.e. 1.5. To repeat an animation infinitely, use Number.POSITIVE_INFINITY
 - curve: An optional animation curve of type [`UIViewAnimationCurve`](https://developer.apple.com/library/ios/documentation/UIKit/Reference/UIView_Class/#//apple_ref/c/tdef/UIViewAnimationCurve) for iOS or [`android.animation.TimeInterpolator`](http://developer.android.com/reference/android/animation/TimeInterpolator.html) for Android.

 All members of the interface are **optional** and have default values with the following exceptions:
 - target is only optional when calling the **animate** method of a [`View`](ApiReference/ui/core/View.md) instance since it is set automatically for you.
 - You must specify at least one property among opacity, backgroundColor, scale, rotate and translate.

## Animation Class
The [`Animation`](ApiReference/ui/animation/Animation.md) class represents a **set** of one or more [`AnimationDefinitions`](ApiReference/ui/animation/AnimationDefinition.md which can be played either **simultaneously or sequentially**. **This class is typically used when you need to animate several views together**. The constructor of the the [`Animation`](ApiReference/ui/animation/Animation.md) class accepts an array of [`AnimationDefinitions`](ApiReference/ui/animation/AnimationDefinition.md) and a boolean parameter indicating whether to play the animations sequentially. Creating an instance of the [`Animation`](ApiReference/ui/animation/Animation.md) class does not start the animation playback. The class has four members:
 - play: a method that starts the animation and returns the instance it was called on for fluent animation chaining.
 - cancel: a void method which stops the animation.
 - finished: a promise which will be resolved when the animation finishes or rejected when the animation is cancelled or stops for another reason.
 - isPlaying: a boolean property returning true if the animation is currently playing.

## View.animate Method
In case you need to animate a **single** [`View`](ApiReference/ui/core/View.md) and you don't need to be able to **cancel** the animation, you can simply use the shortcut **View.animate** method which accepts an [`AnimationDefinition`](ApiReference/ui/animation/AnimationDefinition.md), immediately starts the animation and returns its finished promise.

# Examples

The full source code for all samples is located [`here`](https://github.com/NativeScript/animation-demo).

## Opacity
![opacity](img/modules/animation/opacity.gif "Opacity")
``` JavaScript
view.animate({
    opacity: 0,
    duration: 3000
});
```
``` TypeScript
view.animate({
    opacity: 0,
    duration: 3000
});
```

## Background Color
> **TIP:** [Animating Label.backgroundColor is not currently supported on iOS.](https://github.com/NativeScript/NativeScript/issues/793)

![background-color](img/modules/animation/background-color.gif "Background Color")
``` JavaScript
view.animate({
    backgroundColor: new colorModule.Color("#3D5AFE"),
    duration: 3000
});
```
``` TypeScript
view.animate({
    backgroundColor: new colorModule.Color("#3D5AFE"),
    duration: 3000
});
```

## Translate
![translate](img/modules/animation/translate.gif "Translate")
``` JavaScript
view.animate({
    translate: { x: 100, y: 100},
    duration: 3000
});
```
``` TypeScript
view.animate({
    translate: { x: 100, y: 100},
    duration: 3000
});
```

## Scale
![scale](img/modules/animation/scale.gif "Scale")
``` JavaScript
view.animate({
    scale: { x: 2, y: 2},
    duration: 3000
});
```
``` TypeScript
view.animate({
    scale: { x: 2, y: 2},
    duration: 3000
});
```

## Rotate
![rotate](img/modules/animation/rotate.gif "Rotate")
``` JavaScript
view.animate({
    rotate: 360,
    duration: 3000
});
```
``` TypeScript
view.animate({
    rotate: 360,
    duration: 3000
});
```

## Multiple Properties
![multiple-properties](img/modules/animation/multiple-properties.gif "Multiple Properties")
``` JavaScript
view.animate({
    backgroundColor: new color.Color("#3D5AFE"),
    opacity: 0.5,
    translate: { x: 100, y: 100 },
    rotate: 180,
    duration: 3000
});
```
``` TypeScript
view.animate({
    backgroundColor: new color.Color("#3D5AFE"),
    opacity: 0.5,
    translate: {x: 100, y: 100},
    rotate: 180,
    duration: 3000
});
```

## Chaining with Promises
![chaining-with-promises](img/modules/animation/chaining-with-promises.gif "Chaining with Promises")
``` JavaScript
view.animate({ opacity: 0 })
    .then(function () { return view.animate({ opacity: 1 }); })
    .then(function () { return view.animate({ translate: { x: 100, y: 100 } }); })
    .then(function () { return view.animate({ translate: { x: 0, y: 0 } }); })
    .then(function () { return view.animate({ scale: { x: 3, y: 3 } }); })
    .then(function () { return view.animate({ scale: { x: 1, y: 1 } }); })
    .then(function () { return view.animate({ rotate: 180 }); })
    .then(function () { return view.animate({ rotate: 0 }); })
    .then(function () {
    console.log("Animation finished");
})
    .catch(function (e) {
    console.log(e.message);
});
```
``` TypeScript
view.animate({ opacity: 0 })
    .then(() => view.animate({ opacity: 1 }))
    .then(() => view.animate({ translate: { x: 100, y: 100 } }))
    .then(() => view.animate({ translate: { x: 0, y: 0 } }))
    .then(() => view.animate({ scale: { x: 3, y: 3 } }))
    .then(() => view.animate({ scale: { x: 1, y: 1 } }))
    .then(() => view.animate({ rotate: 180 }))
    .then(() => view.animate({ rotate: 0 }))
    .then(() => {
    console.log("Animation finished");
  })
    .catch((e) => {
    console.log(e.message);
  });
```

## Chaining with Animation Set
![chaining-with-animation-set](img/modules/animation/chaining-with-animation-set.gif "Chaining with Animation Set")
``` JavaScript
var definitions = new Array();
definitions.push({ target: view1, translate: { x: 200, y: 0 }, duration: 3000 });
definitions.push({ target: view2, translate: { x: 0, y: 200 }, duration: 3000 });
definitions.push({ target: view3, translate: { x: -200, y: 0 }, duration: 3000 });
definitions.push({ target: view4, translate: { x: 0, y: -200 }, duration: 3000 });
var playSequentially = true;
var animationSet = new animationModule.Animation(definitions, playSequentially);
animationSet.play().then(function () {
    console.log("Animation finished");
})
    .catch(function (e) {
    console.log(e.message);
});
```
``` TypeScript
var definitions = new Array<animationModule.AnimationDefinition>();
definitions.push({target: view1, translate: {x: 200, y: 0}, duration: 3000 });
definitions.push({target: view2, translate: {x: 0, y: 200}, duration: 3000 });
definitions.push({target: view3, translate: {x: -200, y: 0}, duration: 3000 });
definitions.push({target: view4, translate: {x: 0, y: -200}, duration: 3000 });
var playSequentially = true;
var animationSet = new animationModule.Animation(definitions, playSequentially);
animationSet.play().then(() => {
    console.log("Animation finished");
})
.catch((e) => {
    console.log(e.message);
});
```

## Multiple Views
![multiple-views](img/modules/animation/multiple-views.gif "Multiple Views")
``` JavaScript
var definitions = new Array();
var a1 = {
    target: view1,
    translate: { x: 200, y: 0 },
    duration: 3000
};
definitions.push(a1);
var a2 = {
    target: view2,
    translate: { x: 0, y: 200 },
    duration: 3000
};
definitions.push(a2);
var a3 = {
    target: view3,
    translate: { x: -200, y: 0 },
    duration: 3000
};
definitions.push(a3);
var a4 = {
    target: view4,
    translate: { x: 0, y: -200 },
    duration: 3000
};
definitions.push(a4);
var animationSet = new animationModule.Animation(definitions);
animationSet.play().then(function () {
    console.log("Animation finished");
})
    .catch(function (e) {
    console.log(e.message);
});
```
``` TypeScript
var definitions = new Array<animationModule.AnimationDefinition>();
var a1: animationModule.AnimationDefinition = {
    target: view1,
    translate: {x: 200, y: 0},
    duration: 3000
};
definitions.push(a1);

var a2: animationModule.AnimationDefinition = {
    target: view2,
    translate: {x: 0, y: 200},
    duration: 3000
};
definitions.push(a2);

var a3: animationModule.AnimationDefinition = {
    target: view3,
    translate: {x: -200, y: 0},
    duration: 3000
};
definitions.push(a3);

var a4: animationModule.AnimationDefinition = {
    target: view4,
    translate: {x: 0, y: -200},
    duration: 3000
};
definitions.push(a4);

var animationSet = new animationModule.Animation(definitions);

animationSet.play().then(() => {
    console.log("Animation finished");
})
.catch((e) => {
    console.log(e.message);
});
```

## Reusing Animations
![reusing](img/modules/animation/reusing.gif "Reusing Animations")
``` JavaScript
var animation1 = view.createAnimation({ opacity: 0 });
var animation2 = view.createAnimation({ opacity: 1 });
animation1.play()
    .then(function () { return animation2.play(); })
    .then(function () { return animation1.play(); })
    .then(function () { return animation2.play(); })
    .then(function () { return animation1.play(); })
    .then(function () { return animation2.play(); })
    .then(function () {
    console.log("Animation finished");
})
    .catch(function (e) {
    console.log(e.message);
});
```
``` TypeScript
var animation1 = view.createAnimation({opacity: 0});
var animation2 = view.createAnimation({opacity: 1});

animation1.play()
.then(()=>animation2.play())
.then(()=>animation1.play())
.then(()=>animation2.play())
.then(()=>animation1.play())
.then(()=>animation2.play())
.then(() => {
    console.log("Animation finished");
})
.catch((e) => {
    console.log(e.message);
});
```

## Slide-in Effect
![slide-in-effect](img/modules/animation/slide-in-effect.gif "Slide-in Effect")
``` JavaScript
var item = new imageModule.Image();
item.src = "~/res/icon_100x100.png";
item.width = 90;
item.height = 90;
item.style.margin = "5,5,5,5";
item.translateX = -300;
item.opacity = 0;
item.on("loaded", function (args) {
    args.object.animate({ translate: { x: 0, y: 0 }, opacity: 1 });
});
wrapLayout.addChild(item);
```
``` TypeScript
var item = new imageModule.Image();
item.src = "~/res/icon_100x100.png";
item.width = 90;
item.height = 90;
item.style.margin = "5,5,5,5";
item.translateX = -300;
item.opacity = 0;
item.on("loaded", (args: observable.EventData) => {
    (<viewModule.View>args.object).animate({translate: { x: 0, y: 0 }, opacity: 1});
});
wrapLayout.addChild(item);
```

## Infinite
![infinite](img/modules/animation/infinite.gif "Infinite")
``` JavaScript
animationSet = new animationModule.Animation([{
        target: view,
        rotate: 360,
        duration: 3000,
        iterations: Number.POSITIVE_INFINITY,
        curve: view.ios ? UIViewAnimationCurve.UIViewAnimationCurveLinear : new android.view.animation.LinearInterpolator
    }]);
animationSet.play().catch(function (e) {
    console.log("Animation stoppped!");
});
// Call animationSet.cancel() to stop it;
```
``` TypeScript
animationSet = new animationModule.Animation([{
    target: view,
    rotate: 360,
    duration: 3000,
    iterations: Number.POSITIVE_INFINITY,
    curve: view.ios ? UIViewAnimationCurve.UIViewAnimationCurveLinear : new android.view.animation.LinearInterpolator
}]);
animationSet.play().catch((e) => {
    console.log("Animation stoppped!");
});
// Call animationSet.cancel() to stop it;
```
