docs/tooling/testing/end-to-end-testing/features.md, before:

---
title: Features
description: Write and execute UI E2E automation tests to ensure that newly added features are working correctly and no regressions are introduced in the mobile app.
position: 30
tags: ui testing, app ui testing, nativescript ui testing, automation testing, app automation testing, nativescript automation testing, appium, ui test automation, e2e testing
slug: e2e-testing-features
previous_url: /testing,/core-concepts/testing
---


## E2E Testing - Features

1. Cross-platform [locators](https://github.com/NativeScript/nativescript-dev-appium/blob/master/lib/locators.ts)
1. Find strategies: *findElementByText*, *findElementByClassName*, *findElementByAccessibilityId*, *findElementByXPath*
1. Actions: *tap*, *click*, *doubleTap*, *hold*
1. Gestures: *scroll*, *scrollTo*, *swipe*, *drag*
1. Cross-platform element abstraction with *exists*, *waitForExist*, *waitForNotExist*, *location*, *isDisplayed*, *size*, *text* properties
1. Ability to turn on/off “Don’t keep activities” setting in the Developer options for Android
1. Direct access to driver
1. Typings
1. Async/Await
1. Open source cloud builds integration, i. e. [Sauce Labs](https://saucelabs.com/)
1. Image comparison of: screen, rectangle; block out areas to ignore
1. [WIP] Ability to verify animations/transitions through video/images; please refer to [frame-comparer](https://github.com/SvetoslavTsenov/frame-comparer)


TODO: Describe each feature in details

Commit message:

docs: More content on the e2e testing
- extend getting started
- create the structure for the whole section - add CI page
- update page layout in order to be able to specify different string for the title tag that is more SEO friendly

docs/tooling/testing/end-to-end-testing/features.md, after:

---
title: Features
titletag: End to End Testiing - Features
description: Write and execute UI E2E automation tests to ensure that newly added features are working correctly and no regressions are introduced in the mobile app.
position: 30
tags: ui testing, app ui testing, nativescript ui testing, automation testing, app automation testing, nativescript automation testing, appium, ui test automation, e2e testing
slug: e2e-testing-features
previous_url: /testing,/core-concepts/testing
---


## Features

1. Cross-platform [locators](https://github.com/NativeScript/nativescript-dev-appium/blob/master/lib/locators.ts)
1. Find strategies: *findElementByText*, *findElementByClassName*, *findElementByAccessibilityId*, *findElementByXPath*
1. Actions: *tap*, *click*, *doubleTap*, *hold*
1. Gestures: *scroll*, *scrollTo*, *swipe*, *drag*
1. Cross-platform element abstraction with *exists*, *waitForExist*, *waitForNotExist*, *location*, *isDisplayed*, *size*, *text* properties
1. Ability to turn on/off “Don’t keep activities” setting in the Developer options for Android
1. Direct access to driver
1. Typings
1. Async/Await
1. Open source cloud builds integration, i. e. [Sauce Labs](https://saucelabs.com/)
1. Image comparison of: screen, rectangle; block out areas to ignore
1. [WIP] Ability to verify animations/transitions through video/images; please refer to [frame-comparer](https://github.com/SvetoslavTsenov/frame-comparer)


**TODO**: Describe each feature in details and give a simple example how to use it.
