getting-started/chapter-7.md, before:

## Next steps

Your journey with NativeScript is just beginning. Here are some resources to help you figure out where to go from here.

- Follow [@nativescript](https://twitter.com/nativescript) on Twitter for the latest and greatest news about NativeScript.
- Subscribe to [the NativeScript blog](https://www.nativescript.org/blog) for weekly articles. You can subscribe via RSS or email.
- Head to the [NativeScript Google Group](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/nativescript) if you run into problems with NativeScript, or just want to talk to others in the NativeScript community.
- Check out [NativeScript's roadmap](https://www.nativescript.org/roadmap) to see what's coming next, or watch the [NativeScript/NativeScript repo](https://github.com/NativeScript/NativeScript) on GitHub to follow NativeScript as it's being built.
- Look through the NativeScript [sample apps](https://www.nativescript.org/app-samples-with-code) to get an idea of what people are building.

Finally, if you find an error in this guide, or have suggestions about how we can make it better, please file those ideas in [this guide's issue tracker](https://github.com/NativeScript/quick-start/issues) on GitHub.

Commit message:

Porting Jen's changes over from the new-quick-start branch

getting-started/chapter-7.md, after:

## Next steps

Your journey with NativeScript is just beginning. Here are some resources to help you figure out where to go from here.

- Follow [@nativescript](https://twitter.com/nativescript) on Twitter for the latest and greatest news about NativeScript.
- Subscribe to [the NativeScript blog](https://www.nativescript.org/blog) for weekly articles. You can subscribe via RSS or email.
- Head to the [NativeScript Google Group](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/nativescript) if you run into problems with NativeScript, or just want to talk to others in the NativeScript community.
- Check out [NativeScript's roadmap](https://www.nativescript.org/roadmap) to see what's coming next, or watch the [NativeScript/NativeScript repo](https://github.com/NativeScript/NativeScript) on GitHub to follow NativeScript as it's being built.
- Look through the NativeScript [sample apps](https://www.nativescript.org/app-samples-with-code) to get an idea of what people are building.

Remember that the master branch has the final state of the Groceries app. Feel free to [refer back to it](https://github.com/NativeScript/sample-Groceries) at any time.

Finally, if you find an error in this guide, or have suggestions about how we can make it better, please file those ideas in [this guide's issue tracker](https://github.com/NativeScript/quick-start/issues) on GitHub.
