ApiReference/ui/styling/stylers/README.md, before:

---
nav-title: "Class ui/styling.stylers"
title: "Class ui/styling.stylers"
description: "Class ui/styling.stylers"
---
## Namespace: "ui/styling".stylers
Encapsulates styler classes used for converting NativeScript properties to properties of the native views/widgets.

Class | Description
------|------------
[StylePropertyChangedHandler](../../../ui/styling/stylers/StylePropertyChangedHandler.md) | Represents an object that defines how style property should be applied on a native view/widget.
It holds 3 callbacks:
  1. applyCallback - called when a property value should be applied onto the native view/widget.
  2. resetCallback - called when the property value is cleared to restore the native view/widget in its original state. The callback
also receives as a parameter the value stored by the getNativeValue callback.
  3. getNativeValue - called when a style property is set for the first time to get the default native value for this property
in the native view/widget. This value will be passed to resetCallback in case the property value is cleared. Optional.
[Styler](../../../ui/styling/stylers/Styler.md) | Represents an objects that holds all StylePropertyChangedHandlers for a given view type.

##### Functions
 - **registerHandler(** property [_Property_](../../../ui/core/dependency-observable/Property.md), handler [_StylePropertyChangedHandler_](../../../ui/styling/stylers/StylePropertyChangedHandler.md), className? _String_ **)**
   - **property** - [_Property_](../../../ui/core/dependency-observable/Property.md)
   - **handler** - [_StylePropertyChangedHandler_](../../../ui/styling/stylers/StylePropertyChangedHandler.md)
   - **className** - _(optional)_ - _String_

Commit message:

Updated Api reference to the latest state.

ApiReference/ui/styling/stylers/README.md, after:

---
nav-title: "Class ui/styling.stylers"
title: "Class ui/styling.stylers"
description: "Class ui/styling.stylers"
---
## Namespace: "ui/styling".stylers
Encapsulates styler classes used for converting NativeScript properties to properties of the native views/widgets.

Class | Description
------|------------
[StylePropertyChangedHandler](../../../ui/styling/stylers/StylePropertyChangedHandler.md) | Represents an object that defines how style property should be applied on a native view/widget.
[Styler](../../../ui/styling/stylers/Styler.md) | Represents a sceleton for an object that holds all style related callbacks and registers handlers.
Used for better code readability.

##### Functions
 - **registerHandler(** property [_Property_](../../../ui/core/dependency-observable/Property.md), handler [_StylePropertyChangedHandler_](../../../ui/styling/stylers/StylePropertyChangedHandler.md), className? _String_ **)**  
     A function that actually registers a property with a StylePropertyChangedHandler.
   - **property** - [_Property_](../../../ui/core/dependency-observable/Property.md)  
     - Usually a style dependency property which should be registered for style changes.
   - **handler** - [_StylePropertyChangedHandler_](../../../ui/styling/stylers/StylePropertyChangedHandler.md)  
     - The handler that reacts on property changes.
   - **className** - _(optional)_ - _String_
