plugins/ui-plugin-composite.md, before:

---
title: Building UI Plugins Using Composite Components
description: A guide to bulding a NativeScript plugin showing UI generated by composite NativeScript components
position: 10
slug: building-ui-plugins-composite-components
environment: nativescript
---

# Building UI Plugins using Composite Components

When writing a plugin that shows some UI, you can take different paths. One of the easiest of them is to use {N} means to build the UI, i.e. no calls to native APIs. Thus you can even sometimes avoid using platform-specific files (like \*.ios.ts, \*.android.ts ...).

## Bootstrap Your Plugin 

First things first - you start off from a regular plugin. You can check the [Building Plugins article](/plugins/building-plugins.md) for reference.

## Add UI bits

Let's say you want to build a simple meme generator component with three properties, which you can use like:

```
    <ui:Meme imageSource="~/images/nativescript.png" topText="ROCK" bottomText="ROLL" />
```

...and when used in an app it looks like:

![](../img/plugins/ui-plugin-ns-preview.png)

You can implement this by creating two files:
- **meme.ts**: Contains properties, the implementation logic, and loads the UI.
- **meme.xml**: Contains the UI and data bindings.

In **meme.ts**, you need to declare a class with the name of the UI element that will be used in the app:

```
export class Meme extends GridLayout {
    constructor() {
        super();

        let innerComponent = builder.load(__dirname + '/meme.xml') as View;
        innerComponent.bindingContext = this;

        this.addChild(innerComponent);
    }
}
```

As you see, in the constructor, we load the UI from the **meme.xml** and set its **bindingContext** to **this**, so that we can bind the XML to the properties:
```
<GridLayout rows="auto,*, auto"> 
    <Label row="0" text="{{ topText }}" fontSize="64" textWrap="true" 
        horizontalAlignment="center" verticalAlignment="top"></Label>
        
    <Image rowSpan="3" src="{{ imageSource }}" verticalAlignment="stretch"></Image>

    <Label row="2" text="{{ bottomText }}" fontSize="64" textWrap="true" 
        horizontalAlignment="center" verticalAlignment="bottom"></Label>
</GridLayout>
```
The properties themselves are declared and registered in the .ts like:
```
export const topTextProperty = new Property<Meme, string>({ name: "topText", defaultValue: undefined });
export const bottomTextProperty = new Property<Meme, string>({ name: "bottomText", defaultValue: undefined });
export const imageSourceProperty = new Property<Meme, string>({ name: "imageSource", defaultValue: undefined });

...

imageSourceProperty.register(Meme);
topTextProperty.register(Meme);
bottomTextProperty.register(Meme);
```

For more details and the full source code of the described meme sample, check the [NativeScript ui-plugin sample repo](https://github.com/NativeScript/nativescript-ui-plugin). 

## Make Your Plugin Angular Compatible

Having your UI plugin developed successfully you could easily make it Angular compatible following the steps described in [Supporting Angular in UI Plugins article]({%slug supporting-angular-in-ui-plugins%}).

Commit message:

explain what is composite component, change article position

plugins/ui-plugin-composite.md, after:

---
title: Building UI Plugins Using Composite Components
description: A guide to bulding a NativeScript plugin showing UI generated by composite NativeScript components
position: 30
slug: building-ui-plugins-composite-components
environment: nativescript
---

# Building UI Plugins using Composite Components

When writing a plugin that shows some UI, you can take different paths. One of the easiest of them is to use existing {N} components as building blocks for a more complex UI component (composite), i.e. no explicit calls to native APIs. Thus you can even sometimes avoid using platform-specific files (like \*.ios.ts, \*.android.ts ...).

## Bootstrap Your Plugin 

First things first - you start off from a regular plugin. You can check the [Building Plugins article](/plugins/building-plugins.md) for reference.

## Add UI bits

Let's say you want to build a simple meme generator component with three properties, which you can use like:

```
    <ui:Meme imageSource="~/images/nativescript.png" topText="ROCK" bottomText="ROLL" />
```

...and when used in an app it looks like:

![](../img/plugins/ui-plugin-ns-preview.png)

You can implement this by creating two files:
- **meme.ts**: Contains properties, the implementation logic, and loads the UI.
- **meme.xml**: Contains the UI and data bindings.

In **meme.ts**, you need to declare a class with the name of the UI element that will be used in the app:

```
export class Meme extends GridLayout {
    constructor() {
        super();

        let innerComponent = builder.load(__dirname + '/meme.xml') as View;
        innerComponent.bindingContext = this;

        this.addChild(innerComponent);
    }
}
```

As you see, in the constructor, we load the UI from the **meme.xml** and set its **bindingContext** to **this**, so that we can bind the XML to the properties:
```
<GridLayout rows="auto,*, auto"> 
    <Label row="0" text="{{ topText }}" fontSize="64" textWrap="true" 
        horizontalAlignment="center" verticalAlignment="top"></Label>
        
    <Image rowSpan="3" src="{{ imageSource }}" verticalAlignment="stretch"></Image>

    <Label row="2" text="{{ bottomText }}" fontSize="64" textWrap="true" 
        horizontalAlignment="center" verticalAlignment="bottom"></Label>
</GridLayout>
```
The properties themselves are declared and registered in the .ts like:
```
export const topTextProperty = new Property<Meme, string>({ name: "topText", defaultValue: undefined });
export const bottomTextProperty = new Property<Meme, string>({ name: "bottomText", defaultValue: undefined });
export const imageSourceProperty = new Property<Meme, string>({ name: "imageSource", defaultValue: undefined });

...

imageSourceProperty.register(Meme);
topTextProperty.register(Meme);
bottomTextProperty.register(Meme);
```

For more details and the full source code of the described meme sample, check the [NativeScript ui-plugin sample repo](https://github.com/NativeScript/nativescript-ui-plugin). 

## Make Your Plugin Angular Compatible

Having your UI plugin developed successfully you could easily make it Angular compatible following the steps described in [Supporting Angular in UI Plugins article]({%slug supporting-angular-in-ui-plugins%}).
