docs/start/introduction.md, before:

---
title: Getting Started
description: Meet NativeScript - an open-source framework for the cross-platform development of truly native apps.
position: 10
slug: introduction
previous_url: /index
---

{% nativescript %}
# Getting Started With NativeScript

NativeScript is how you build cross-platform, native iOS and Android apps without web views. Use Angular, TypeScript or modern JavaScript to get truly native UI and performance while reusing the skills and the code from your web projects. Get 100% access to native APIs via JavaScript and reuse of packages from npm, CocoaPods and Gradle. Open source and backed by Progress.
{% endnativescript %}

{% angular %}
# Getting Started With NativeScript and Angular

NativeScript doesn’t require [Angular](https://angular.io/), but it’s even better when you use it. You can fully reuse skills and code from the web to build beautiful, high performance native mobile apps without web views. NativeScript features deep integration with Angular, the latest and greatest (and fastest) JavaScript framework. Open source and backed by Progress.
{% endangular %}

Ready to get started developing with NativeScript? Here are your next steps.

## Step #1: NativeScript Playground

NativeScript Playground is a browser-based environment for getting started with NativeScript fast. Playground offers a set of comprehensive tutorials that walk you through building a real-world iOS and Android app from scratch.

{% angular %}
<p><a href="https://play.nativescript.org/?template=groceries-ng&tutorial=groceries-ng" class="ns-button -action">Start Tutorial</a></p>
{% endangular %}

{% nativescript %}
<p><a href="https://play.nativescript.org/?template=groceries-js&tutorial=groceries-js" class="ns-button -action">Start Tutorial</a></p>
{% endnativescript %}

## Step #2: Install the NativeScript Command-Line Interface

Once you have the basics of NativeScript down in Playground, you need to set up a local development environment that lets you build and test your apps locally. To do that you’ll want to go through our documentation on installing the NativeScript command-line interface.

<p><a href="../start/quick-setup" class="ns-button -action">Install the NativeScript CLI</a></p>

## Step #3: Learn the NativeScript Command-Line Interface Basics

Now that you have the NativeScript CLI installed, you’ll want to learn the basics of how the CLI works, including how to run, build, and debug your apps.

<p><a href="../start/cli-basics" class="ns-button -action">Learn the CLI Basics</a></p>

## Step #4: Join the NativeScript Community

Regardless of what you choose to do next with NativeScript, joining the NativeScript community is a great way to keep up with the latest and greatest in the NativeScript world. Here are some ways you can get involved:

- **Follow [@nativescript](https://twitter.com/nativescript) on Twitter** for updates on all things NativeScript.
- **Sign up for the [NativeScript newsletter](https://www.nativescript.org/nativescript-newsletter)**. The newsletter will deliver NativeScript articles, news, plugin updates, and more straight to your inbox.
- **Join the [NativeScript Community Slack](http://developer.telerik.com/wp-login.php?action=slack-invitation)**. The community Slack is a great place to chat with others in the NativeScript community.
- **Bookmark the [NativeScript tag on Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/nativescript)**, as it’s a great place to ask questions when you need help.

Commit message:

Adding a plug for our "getting started" webinar

docs/start/introduction.md, after:

---
title: Getting Started
description: Meet NativeScript - an open-source framework for the cross-platform development of truly native apps.
position: 10
slug: introduction
previous_url: /index
---

{% nativescript %}
# Getting Started With NativeScript

NativeScript is how you build cross-platform, native iOS and Android apps without web views. Use Angular, TypeScript or modern JavaScript to get truly native UI and performance while reusing the skills and the code from your web projects. Get 100% access to native APIs via JavaScript and reuse of packages from npm, CocoaPods and Gradle. Open source and backed by Progress.
{% endnativescript %}

{% angular %}
# Getting Started With NativeScript and Angular

NativeScript doesn’t require [Angular](https://angular.io/), but it’s even better when you use it. You can fully reuse skills and code from the web to build beautiful, high performance native mobile apps without web views. NativeScript features deep integration with Angular, the latest and greatest (and fastest) JavaScript framework. Open source and backed by Progress.
{% endangular %}

> **TIP**: Looking for guided introduction to NativeScript? Join us for a [30-minute getting-started webinar](https://register.gotowebinar.com/register/8013085005086231299), where you’ll learn the basics of NativeScript, and have the chance to ask questions.

Ready to get started developing with NativeScript? Here are your next steps.

## Step #1: NativeScript Playground

NativeScript Playground is a browser-based environment for getting started with NativeScript fast. Playground offers a set of comprehensive tutorials that walk you through building a real-world iOS and Android app from scratch.

{% angular %}
<p><a href="https://play.nativescript.org/?template=groceries-ng&tutorial=groceries-ng" class="ns-button -action">Start Tutorial</a></p>
{% endangular %}

{% nativescript %}
<p><a href="https://play.nativescript.org/?template=groceries-js&tutorial=groceries-js" class="ns-button -action">Start Tutorial</a></p>
{% endnativescript %}

## Step #2: Install the NativeScript Command-Line Interface

Once you have the basics of NativeScript down in Playground, you need to set up a local development environment that lets you build and test your apps locally. To do that you’ll want to go through our documentation on installing the NativeScript command-line interface.

<p><a href="../start/quick-setup" class="ns-button -action">Install the NativeScript CLI</a></p>

## Step #3: Learn the NativeScript Command-Line Interface Basics

Now that you have the NativeScript CLI installed, you’ll want to learn the basics of how the CLI works, including how to run, build, and debug your apps.

<p><a href="../start/cli-basics" class="ns-button -action">Learn the CLI Basics</a></p>

## Step #4: Join the NativeScript Community

Regardless of what you choose to do next with NativeScript, joining the NativeScript community is a great way to keep up with the latest and greatest in the NativeScript world. Here are some ways you can get involved:

- **Follow [@nativescript](https://twitter.com/nativescript) on Twitter** for updates on all things NativeScript.
- **Sign up for the [NativeScript newsletter](https://www.nativescript.org/nativescript-newsletter)**. The newsletter will deliver NativeScript articles, news, plugin updates, and more straight to your inbox.
- **Join the [NativeScript Community Slack](http://developer.telerik.com/wp-login.php?action=slack-invitation)**. The community Slack is a great place to chat with others in the NativeScript community.
- **Bookmark the [NativeScript tag on Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/nativescript)**, as it’s a great place to ask questions when you need help.
