start/ns-setup-os-x.md, before:

---
title: Set Up OS X
description: Configure your OS X system to create, develop and build projects locally with NativeScript.
position: 4
publish: false
slug: osx
previous_url: /setup/ns-cli-setup/ns-setup-os-x
---

# Set Up the NativeScript CLI on OS X

With the open-source [NativeScript Command-Line Interface](https://github.com/NativeScript/nativescript-cli) and an IDE or text editor of your choice, you can create, develop, store and build your apps entirely locally, free of charge, without an Internet connection and anonymously.

On OS X systems, you can use the NativeScript CLI to develop Android and iOS apps.

* [System Requirements](#system-requirements)
* [Environment Requirements](#environment-requirements)
* [Setup](#setup)

## System Requirements

* OS X Mavericks or later
* The latest Node.js 0.10.x, 0.12.x, 4.2.x, or 5.1.x stable official release
* (Optional) Homebrew to simplify the installation of dependencies
* For iOS development
    * Latest Xcode
    * Command-line tools for Xcode
* For Android development
    * JDK 8 or a later stable official release
    * Android SDK 22 or a later stable official release
    * Android Support Repository
    * Android SDK Build-tools 22.0.0 or a later stable official release
    * (Optional) Genymotion to expand your testing options

## Environment Requirements

For Android development

* JAVA_HOME environment variable must be set
* ANDROID_HOME environment variable must be set
    
## Setup

1. Install [Homebrew](http://brew.sh) to simplify the installation process.

    ```Shell
    ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install)"
    ```
1. Install the latest Node.js [0.10.x](https://nodejs.org/dist/latest-v0.10.x/), or [0.12.x](https://nodejs.org/dist/latest-v0.12.x/), or [4.2.x](https://nodejs.org/dist/latest-v4.x/) stable official release.

    ```Shell
    brew install homebrew/versions/node012
    ```
1. Install and configure CocoaPods.

    ```Shell
    sudo gem install cocoapods
    pod setup
    ```
1. Install the dependencies for iOS development.
    1. Run the App Store and download and install Xcode 5 or later.
    1. Go to [Downloads for Apple Developers](https://developer.apple.com/downloads/index.action), log in and download and install the **Command Line Tools for Xcode** for your version of OS X and Xcode.
1. Install the dependencies for Android development.
    1. Install [JDK 8](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html) or a later stable official release.
        1. Go to [Java SE Downloads](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html) and click **Download** for JDK.
        1. In the **Java SE Development Kit** section, accept the license agreement and click the download link for Mac OS X.
        1. Wait for the download to complete and install the JDK.
    1. Set the JAVA_HOME system environment variable.
        ```
        export JAVA_HOME=$(/usr/libexec/java_home)
        ```
    1. Install the [Android SDK](http://developer.android.com/sdk/index.html).
        1. In the terminal, run the following command.

            ```Shell
            brew install android-sdk
            ```
        1. Set the ANDROID_HOME system environment variable.
            ```
            export ANDROID_HOME=Path to Android installation directory
            ```
            For example: ANDROID_HOME=/usr/local/Cellar/android-sdk/24/
            > NOTE: This is the directory that contains `tools` and `platform-tools` directories.
        1. Select all packages for the Android 22 SDK, Android SDK Build-tools 22.0.0 or later, Android Support Repository (under Extras) and any other SDKs that you want to install and click **Install**.
           You can use the following command, that will install all required tools:
           ```
           android update sdk --filter tools,platform-tools,android-22,build-tools-22.0.1,extra-android-m2repository,extra-google-m2repository,extra-android-support --all --no-ui
           ```
    1. (Optional) Install Genymotion.<br/>Genymotion is a third-party native emulator.
        1. Go to [Download VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads) and download and install VirtualBox for OS X.
        1. Go to [Get Genymotion](https://www.genymotion.com/#!/download), select Mac and click **Get Genymotion**.
        1. After the download completes, run the installer and complete the installation.
        1. Add the following file paths to the `PATH` system environment variable.

            ```
            Path to the MacOS directory in the Contents directory in the Genymotion Shell app
            Path to the MacOS directory in the Contents directory in the Genymotion app
            ```

            For example: Run the following command `export PATH=$PATH:/Applications/Genymotion\ Shell.app/Contents/MacOS/:/Applications/Genymotion.app/Contents/MacOS/`
1. Install the NativeScript CLI.
    1. Run the following command.

        ```Shell
        npm i -g nativescript
        ```
    1. Restart the command prompt.
1. To check if your system is configured properly, run the following command.

    ```Shell
    tns doctor
    ```

## What's Next

Return to the [introduction]({% slug introduction %}).

Commit message:

Add ANDROID_HOME to Path
I had to add the ANDROID_HOME variable to my path in order to get it to work.

start/ns-setup-os-x.md, after:

---
title: Set Up OS X
description: Configure your OS X system to create, develop and build projects locally with NativeScript.
position: 4
publish: false
slug: osx
previous_url: /setup/ns-cli-setup/ns-setup-os-x
---

# Set Up the NativeScript CLI on OS X

With the open-source [NativeScript Command-Line Interface](https://github.com/NativeScript/nativescript-cli) and an IDE or text editor of your choice, you can create, develop, store and build your apps entirely locally, free of charge, without an Internet connection and anonymously.

On OS X systems, you can use the NativeScript CLI to develop Android and iOS apps.

* [System Requirements](#system-requirements)
* [Environment Requirements](#environment-requirements)
* [Setup](#setup)

## System Requirements

* OS X Mavericks or later
* The latest Node.js 0.10.x, 0.12.x, 4.2.x, or 5.1.x stable official release
* (Optional) Homebrew to simplify the installation of dependencies
* For iOS development
    * Latest Xcode
    * Command-line tools for Xcode
* For Android development
    * JDK 8 or a later stable official release
    * Android SDK 22 or a later stable official release
    * Android Support Repository
    * Android SDK Build-tools 22.0.0 or a later stable official release
    * (Optional) Genymotion to expand your testing options

## Environment Requirements

For Android development

* JAVA_HOME environment variable must be set
* ANDROID_HOME environment variable must be set
    
## Setup

1. Install [Homebrew](http://brew.sh) to simplify the installation process.

    ```Shell
    ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install)"
    ```
1. Install the latest Node.js [0.10.x](https://nodejs.org/dist/latest-v0.10.x/), or [0.12.x](https://nodejs.org/dist/latest-v0.12.x/), or [4.2.x](https://nodejs.org/dist/latest-v4.x/) stable official release.

    ```Shell
    brew install homebrew/versions/node012
    ```
1. Install and configure CocoaPods.

    ```Shell
    sudo gem install cocoapods
    pod setup
    ```
1. Install the dependencies for iOS development.
    1. Run the App Store and download and install Xcode 5 or later.
    1. Go to [Downloads for Apple Developers](https://developer.apple.com/downloads/index.action), log in and download and install the **Command Line Tools for Xcode** for your version of OS X and Xcode.
1. Install the dependencies for Android development.
    1. Install [JDK 8](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html) or a later stable official release.
        1. Go to [Java SE Downloads](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html) and click **Download** for JDK.
        1. In the **Java SE Development Kit** section, accept the license agreement and click the download link for Mac OS X.
        1. Wait for the download to complete and install the JDK.
    1. Set the JAVA_HOME system environment variable.
        ```
        export JAVA_HOME=$(/usr/libexec/java_home)
        ```
    1. Install the [Android SDK](http://developer.android.com/sdk/index.html).
        1. In the terminal, run the following command.

            ```Shell
            brew install android-sdk
            ```
        1. Set the ANDROID_HOME system environment variable.
            ```
            export ANDROID_HOME=Path to Android installation directory
            ```
            For example: ANDROID_HOME=/usr/local/Cellar/android-sdk/24/
            > NOTE: This is the directory that contains `tools` and `platform-tools` directories.
        2. Add the ANDROID_HOME variable to your path
           ```
           export PATH=$PATH:$ANDROID_HOME/tools:$ANDROID_HOME/platform-tools
           ```
        3. Select all packages for the Android 22 SDK, Android SDK Build-tools 22.0.0 or later, Android Support Repository (under Extras) and any other SDKs that you want to install and click **Install**.
           You can use the following command, that will install all required tools:
           ```
           android update sdk --filter tools,platform-tools,android-22,build-tools-22.0.1,extra-android-m2repository,extra-google-m2repository,extra-android-support --all --no-ui
           ```
    1. (Optional) Install Genymotion.<br/>Genymotion is a third-party native emulator.
        1. Go to [Download VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads) and download and install VirtualBox for OS X.
        1. Go to [Get Genymotion](https://www.genymotion.com/#!/download), select Mac and click **Get Genymotion**.
        1. After the download completes, run the installer and complete the installation.
        1. Add the following file paths to the `PATH` system environment variable.

            ```
            Path to the MacOS directory in the Contents directory in the Genymotion Shell app
            Path to the MacOS directory in the Contents directory in the Genymotion app
            ```

            For example: Run the following command `export PATH=$PATH:/Applications/Genymotion\ Shell.app/Contents/MacOS/:/Applications/Genymotion.app/Contents/MacOS/`
1. Install the NativeScript CLI.
    1. Run the following command.

        ```Shell
        npm i -g nativescript
        ```
    1. Restart the command prompt.
1. To check if your system is configured properly, run the following command.

    ```Shell
    tns doctor
    ```

## What's Next

Return to the [introduction]({% slug introduction %}).
