start/ns-setup-win.md, before:

---
title: Set Up Windows
description: Configure your Windows system to create, develop and build projects locally with NativeScript.
position: 3
slug: windows
publish: false
previous_url: /setup/ns-cli-setup/ns-setup-win
---

# Set Up the NativeScript CLI on Windows

With the open-source [NativeScript Command-Line Interface](https://github.com/NativeScript/nativescript-cli) and an IDE or text editor of your choice, you can create, develop, store and build your apps entirely locally, free of charge and anonymously.

On Windows systems, you can use the NativeScript CLI to develop only Android apps. This limitation is caused by the requirements for iOS development.

* [System Requirements](#system-requirements)
* [Environment Requirements](#environment-requirements)
* [Setup](#setup)

## System Requirements

* Windows 7 Service Pack 1 or later
* The latest Node.js 0.10.x, 0.12.x, 4.x, or 5.x stable official release
* (Optional) Chocolatey to simplify the installation of dependencies
* JDK 8 or a later stable official release
* Android SDK 22 or a later stable official release
* Local Maven repository for Support Libraries
* Android SDK Build-tools 23.0.0 or a later stable official release
* (Optional) Genymotion to expand your testing options

### Quick setup

If this is your first time developing a mobile project, consider using the one-liner scripts in this section to effortlessly setup your machine.
If you have experience developing mobile apps, you may skip to the [Environment Requirements](#environment-requirements) section below.

Open Start Menu, search for `Command Prompt` and start it. This opens a console window. Copy and paste this script:

> @powershell -NoProfile -ExecutionPolicy Bypass -Command "iex ((new-object net.webclient).DownloadString('https://www.nativescript.org/setup/win'))"

You may need to accept an User Account Control prompt to grant the script administrative privileges. Note that the script downloads and installs some big dependencies and may take some time to complete.

## Environment Requirements

For Android development

* JAVA_HOME environment variable must be set
* ANDROID_HOME environment variable must be set

## Setup

1. Install the latest Node.js [0.10.x](https://nodejs.org/dist/latest-v0.10.x/), [0.12.x](https://nodejs.org/dist/latest-v0.12.x/), [4.x](https://nodejs.org/dist/latest-v4.x/), or [5.x](https://nodejs.org/dist/latest-v5.x/) stable official release. We recommend using Node.js v4.x
1. Install [Chocolatey](https://chocolatey.org) to simplify the installation and configuration of the Android tools and SDKs.
    1. Run the command prompt as an Administrator.
    1. Copy and paste the following script in the command prompt.

        ```Shell
        @powershell -NoProfile -ExecutionPolicy unrestricted -Command "iex ((new-object net.webclient).DownloadString('https://chocolatey.org/install.ps1'))" && SET PATH=%PATH%;%ALLUSERSPROFILE%\chocolatey\bin
        ```
    1. Restart the command prompt.
1. Install [JDK 8](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html) or a later stable official release.
    1. In the command prompt, run the following command.

        ```Shell
        choco install jdk8
        ```
    1. If not present, create the following environment variable from a command-prompt, started as an administrator.

        ```
        SETX JAVA_HOME "Path to the jdk* install folder" /M
        ```

        For example: `SETX JAVA_HOME "C:\Program Files\Java\jdk1.8.0_65" /M`
1. Install the [Android SDK](http://developer.android.com/sdk/index.html).
    1. In the command prompt, run the following command.

        ```Shell
        choco install android-sdk
        ```
    1. If not present, create the following environment variable from a command-prompt, started as an administrator.

        ```
        SETX ANDROID_HOME "Path to the Android SDK install folder" /M
        ```

        For example: `SETX ANDROID_HOME "C:\Program Files (x86)\Android\android-sdk" /M`
    1. Restart the command prompt.
1. Install the required Android SDKs and the Local Maven repository for Support Libraries.

	```Shell
	echo yes | "%ANDROID_HOME%\tools\android" update sdk --filter tools,platform-tools,android-23,build-tools-23.0.2,extra-android-m2repository,extra-google-m2repository,extra-android-support --all --no-ui
	```
1. (Optional) Install Genymotion.<br/>Genymotion is a third-party native emulator.
    1. Go to [Get Genymotion](https://www.genymotion.com/#!/download), select Windows and click **Get Genymotion**.<br/>You might want to download the larger archive which contains VirtualBox.
    1. If prompted, confirm the download.
    1. After the download completes, run the installer and complete the installation.
1. Install the NativeScript CLI.
    1. Run the following command.

        ```Shell
        npm i -g nativescript
        ```
    1. Restart the command prompt.
1. To check if your system is configured properly, run the following command.

    ```Shell
    tns doctor
    ```

## What's Next

Return to the [introduction]({% slug introduction %}).

Commit message:

Simplifying and consolidating the installation instructions ✏
Conflicts:
	start/ns-setup-os-x.md
	start/ns-setup-win.md
	start/quick-setup.md
	tutorial/chapter-1.md
	tutorial/ng-chapter-1.md

start/ns-setup-win.md, after:

---
title: NativeScript Advanced Setup—Windows
description: Configure your Windows system to create, develop and build projects locally with NativeScript.
position: 3
slug: windows
publish: false
previous_url: /setup/ns-cli-setup/ns-setup-win
---

# NativeScript Advanced Setup: Windows

This page contains a list of all system requirements needed to build and run NativeScript apps on Windows, as well as a guided walkthrough for getting these requirements in place.

* [System Requirements](#system-requirements)
* [Advanced Setup Steps](#advanced-setup-steps)

> **NOTE**: On Windows systems you can only use the NativeScript CLI to develop Android apps. This is because the NativeScript CLI uses Xcode to build iOS apps, which is only available on the OS X operating system. If you’re interested in building iOS apps on Windows, you may want to try out the [Telerik Platform](http://www.telerik.com/platform). The Telerik Platform provides robust tooling for NativeScript apps, including a service that performs iOS and Android builds in the cloud, removing the need to complete these system requirements, and allowing you to build for iOS on Windows.

## System Requirements

* Windows 7 Service Pack 1 or later
* The latest Node.js 0.10.x, 0.12.x, 4.x, or 5.x stable official release
* (Optional) Chocolatey to simplify the installation of dependencies
* JDK 8 or a later stable official release
* Android SDK 22 or a later stable official release
* Local Maven repository for Support Libraries
* Android SDK Build-tools 23.0.0 or a later stable official release
* (Optional) Genymotion to expand your testing options

You must also have the following two environment variables setup for Android development:

* JAVA_HOME
* ANDROID_HOME

## Advanced Setup Steps

Complete the following steps to set up NativeScript on your Windows development machine:

1. Install the latest Node.js [0.10.x](https://nodejs.org/dist/latest-v0.10.x/), [0.12.x](https://nodejs.org/dist/latest-v0.12.x/), [4.x](https://nodejs.org/dist/latest-v4.x/), or [5.x](https://nodejs.org/dist/latest-v5.x/) stable official release. We recommend using Node.js v4.x
1. Install [Chocolatey](https://chocolatey.org) to simplify the installation and configuration of the Android tools and SDKs.
    1. Run the command prompt as an Administrator.
    1. Copy and paste the following script in the command prompt.

        ```Shell
        @powershell -NoProfile -ExecutionPolicy unrestricted -Command "iex ((new-object net.webclient).DownloadString('https://chocolatey.org/install.ps1'))" && SET PATH=%PATH%;%ALLUSERSPROFILE%\chocolatey\bin
        ```
    1. Restart the command prompt.
1. Install [JDK 8](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html) or a later stable official release.
    1. In the command prompt, run the following command.

        ```Shell
        choco install jdk8
        ```
    1. If not present, create the following environment variable from a command-prompt, started as an administrator.

        ```
        SETX JAVA_HOME "Path to the jdk* install folder" /M
        ```

        For example: `SETX JAVA_HOME "C:\Program Files\Java\jdk1.8.0_65" /M`
1. Install the [Android SDK](http://developer.android.com/sdk/index.html).
    1. In the command prompt, run the following command.

        ```Shell
        choco install android-sdk
        ```
    1. If not present, create the following environment variable from a command-prompt, started as an administrator.

        ```
        SETX ANDROID_HOME "Path to the Android SDK install folder" /M
        ```

        For example: `SETX ANDROID_HOME "C:\Program Files (x86)\Android\android-sdk" /M`
    1. Restart the command prompt.
1. Install the required Android SDKs and the Local Maven repository for Support Libraries.

    ```Shell
    echo yes | "%ANDROID_HOME%\tools\android" update sdk --filter tools,platform-tools,android-23,build-tools-23.0.2,extra-android-m2repository,extra-google-m2repository,extra-android-support --all --no-ui
    ```
1. (Optional) Install Genymotion.<br/>Genymotion is a third-party native emulator.
    1. Go to [Get Genymotion](https://www.genymotion.com/#!/download), select Windows and click **Get Genymotion**.<br/>You might want to download the larger archive which contains VirtualBox.
    1. If prompted, confirm the download.
    1. After the download completes, run the installer and complete the installation.
1. Install the NativeScript CLI.
    1. Run the following command.

        ```Shell
        npm i -g nativescript
        ```
    1. Restart the command prompt.
1. To check if your system is configured properly, run the following command.

    ```Shell
    tns doctor
    ```

## What’s Next

* [Return to the JavaScript tutorial](/tutorial/ng-chapter-1#11-install-nativescript-and-configure-your-environment)
* [Return to the TypeScript & Angular tutorial](/angular/tutorial/ng-chapter-1#11-install-nativescript-and-configure-your-environment).
