start/ns-setup-linux.md, before:

---
title: Set Up Linux
description: Configure your Linux system to create, develop and build projects locally with NativeScript.
position: 5
slug: linux
publish: false
previous_url: /setup/ns-cli-setup/ns-setup-linux
---

# Set Up the NativeScript CLI on Linux

With the open-source [NativeScript Command-Line Interface](https://github.com/NativeScript/nativescript-cli) and an IDE or text editor of your choice, you can create, develop, store and build your apps entirely locally, free of charge and anonymously.

On Linux systems, you can use the NativeScript CLI to develop only Android apps. This limitation is caused by the requirements for iOS development.

* [System Requirements](#system-requirements)
* [Environment Requirements](#environment-requirements)
* [Setup](#setup)

## System Requirements

* Ubuntu 14.04 LTS
* The latest Node.js 0.10.x, 0.12.x, 4.x, or 5.x stable official release
* G++ compiler
* JDK 8 or a later stable official release
* Android SDK 22 or a later stable official release
* Local Maven repository for Support Libraries
* Android SDK Build-tools 23.0.0 or a later stable official release
* (Optional) Genymotion to expand your testing options

## Environment Requirements

* JAVA_HOME environment variable must be set
* ANDROID_HOME environment variable must be set

## Setup

1. Run the terminal.
1. Install the latest Node.js [0.10.x](https://nodejs.org/dist/latest-v0.10.x/), [0.12.x](https://nodejs.org/dist/latest-v0.12.x/), or [4.x](https://nodejs.org/dist/latest-v4.x/) stable official release.
1. If you are running on a 64-bit system, install the runtime libraries for the ia32/i386 architecture.

    ```Shell
    sudo apt-get install lib32z1 lib32ncurses5 lib32bz2-1.0 libstdc++6:i386
    ```
1. Install the G++ compiler.

    ```Shell
    sudo apt-get install g++
    ```
1. Install [JDK 8](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html) or a later stable official release.
	1. Run the following commands.

    	```Shell
        sudo apt-get install python-software-properties
    	sudo add-apt-repository ppa:webupd8team/java
    	sudo apt-get update
    	sudo apt-get install oracle-java8-installer
        ```
    1. After installation if you have multiple installations of java you can choose which to use:

    	```Shell
    	sudo update-alternatives --config java
    	```
----
1. Set the JAVA_HOME system environment variable.
    ```
    export JAVA_HOME=$(update-alternatives --query javac | sed -n -e 's/Best: *\(.*\)\/bin\/javac/\1/p')
    ```

----
1. Install the [Android SDK](http://developer.android.com/sdk/index.html).<br/>If you experience issues with the installation, go to [Installing the Android SDK](https://developer.android.com/sdk/installing/index.html?pkg=tools), expand the **Show instructions for all platforms** section, expand the **Troubleshooting Ubuntu** section and review the troubleshooting guide.
    1. Go to [Android Studio and SDK Downloads](https://developer.android.com/sdk/index.html#Other) and in the **SDK Tools Only** section download the package for Linux.
    1. After the download completes, unpack the downloaded archive.
1. Set the ANDROID_HOME system environment variable.
    ```
    export ANDROID_HOME=Path to Android installation directory
    ```
    For example: ANDROID_HOME=/android/sdk/
    > NOTE: This is the directory that contains `tools` and `platform-tools` directories.

1. Install the required Android SDKs and the Local Maven repository for Support Libraries.

	```Shell
	sudo $ANDROID_HOME/tools/android update sdk --filter tools,platform-tools,android-23,build-tools-23.0.2,extra-android-m2repository,extra-google-m2repository,extra-android-support --all --no-ui
	```
1. (Optional) Install Genymotion.<br/>Genymotion is a third-party native emulator.
    1. Go to [Download VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads) and download and install VirtualBox for Linux.
    1. Go to [Get Genymotion](https://www.genymotion.com/#!/download), select Linux and click the download link for Ubuntu.
	1. After the download completes, run the installer and complete the installation.
1. Install the NativeScript CLI.
    1. Run the following command.

	```Shell
	sudo npm install nativescript -g --unsafe-perm
	```
    1. Restart the command prompt.
1. To check if your system is configured properly, run the following command.

    ```Shell
    tns doctor
    ```

## What's Next

Return to the [introduction]({% slug introduction %}).

Commit message:

Simplifying and consolidating the installation instructions ✏
Conflicts:
	start/ns-setup-os-x.md
	start/ns-setup-win.md
	start/quick-setup.md
	tutorial/chapter-1.md
	tutorial/ng-chapter-1.md

start/ns-setup-linux.md, after:

---
title: NativeScript Advanced Setup—Linux
description: Configure your Linux system to create, develop and build projects locally with NativeScript.
position: 5
slug: linux
publish: false
previous_url: /setup/ns-cli-setup/ns-setup-linux
---

# NativeScript Advanced Setup: Linux

This page contains a list of all system requirements needed to build and run NativeScript apps on Linux, as well as a guided walkthrough for getting these requirements in place.

* [System Requirements](#system-requirements)
* [Advanced Setup Steps](#advanced-setup-steps)

> **NOTE**: On Linux systems you can only use the NativeScript CLI to develop Android apps. This is because the NativeScript CLI uses Xcode to build iOS apps, which is only available on the OS X operating system. If you’re interested in building iOS apps on Linux, you may want to try out the [Telerik Platform](http://www.telerik.com/platform). The Telerik Platform provides robust tooling for NativeScript apps, including a service that performs iOS and Android builds in the cloud, removing the need to complete these system requirements, and allowing you to build for iOS on Linux.

## System Requirements

* Ubuntu 14.04 LTS
* The latest Node.js 0.10.x, 0.12.x, 4.x, or 5.x stable official release
* G++ compiler
* JDK 8 or a later stable official release
* Android SDK 22 or a later stable official release
* Local Maven repository for Support Libraries
* Android SDK Build-tools 23.0.0 or a later stable official release
* (Optional) Genymotion to expand your testing options

You must also have the following two environment variables setup for Android development:

* JAVA_HOME
* ANDROID_HOME

## Advanced Setup Steps

Complete the following steps to setup NativeScript on your Linux development machine:

1. Install the latest Node.js [0.10.x](https://nodejs.org/dist/latest-v0.10.x/), [0.12.x](https://nodejs.org/dist/latest-v0.12.x/), or [4.x](https://nodejs.org/dist/latest-v4.x/) stable official release.
1. If you are running on a 64-bit system, install the runtime libraries for the ia32/i386 architecture.

    ```Shell
    sudo apt-get install lib32z1 lib32ncurses5 lib32bz2-1.0 libstdc++6:i386
    ```
1. Install the G++ compiler.

    ```Shell
    sudo apt-get install g++
    ```
1. Install [JDK 8](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html) or a later stable official release.
    1. Run the following commands.

        ```Shell
        sudo apt-get install python-software-properties
        sudo add-apt-repository ppa:webupd8team/java
        sudo apt-get update
        sudo apt-get install oracle-java8-installer
        ```
    1. After installation if you have multiple installations of java you can choose which to use:

        ```Shell
        sudo update-alternatives --config java
        ```
----
1. Set the JAVA_HOME system environment variable.
    ```
    export JAVA_HOME=$(update-alternatives --query javac | sed -n -e 's/Best: *\(.*\)\/bin\/javac/\1/p')
    ```

----
1. Install the [Android SDK](http://developer.android.com/sdk/index.html).<br/>If you experience issues with the installation, go to [Installing the Android SDK](https://developer.android.com/sdk/installing/index.html?pkg=tools), expand the **Show instructions for all platforms** section, expand the **Troubleshooting Ubuntu** section and review the troubleshooting guide.
    1. Go to [Android Studio and SDK Downloads](https://developer.android.com/sdk/index.html#Other) and in the **SDK Tools Only** section download the package for Linux.
    1. After the download completes, unpack the downloaded archive.
1. Set the ANDROID_HOME system environment variable.
    ```
    export ANDROID_HOME=Path to Android installation directory
    ```
    For example: ANDROID_HOME=/android/sdk/
    > NOTE: This is the directory that contains `tools` and `platform-tools` directories.

1. Install the required Android SDKs and the Local Maven repository for Support Libraries.

    ```Shell
    sudo $ANDROID_HOME/tools/android update sdk --filter tools,platform-tools,android-23,build-tools-23.0.2,extra-android-m2repository,extra-google-m2repository,extra-android-support --all --no-ui
    ```
1. (Optional) Install Genymotion.<br/>Genymotion is a third-party native emulator.
    1. Go to [Download VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads) and download and install VirtualBox for Linux.
    1. Go to [Get Genymotion](https://www.genymotion.com/#!/download), select Linux and click the download link for Ubuntu.
    1. After the download completes, run the installer and complete the installation.
1. Install the NativeScript CLI.
    1. Run the following command.

    ```Shell
    sudo npm install nativescript -g --unsafe-perm
    ```
    1. Restart the command prompt.
1. To check if your system is configured properly, run the following command.

    ```Shell
    tns doctor
    ```

## What’s Next

* [Return to the JavaScript tutorial](/tutorial/ng-chapter-1#11-install-nativescript-and-configure-your-environment)
* [Return to the TypeScript & Angular tutorial](/angular/tutorial/ng-chapter-1#11-install-nativescript-and-configure-your-environment).
