start/troubleshooting.md, before:

---
title: Troubleshooting
description: Known issues with NativeScript and their workarounds
position: 9
slug: troubleshooting
previous_url: /troubleshooting
---

# Known Issues and Limitations

* [CLI](#cli)
* [User Experience](#user-experience)

## CLI

### Error thrown when attempting to run build-related operations for Android

```Shell
FAILURE: Build failed with an exception.

* What went wrong:
A problem occurred configuring root project 'app_name'.
> Could not resolve all dependencies for configuration ':_debugCompile'.
```

**Workaround:** Run `$ android` to launch the Android SDK Manager and download the Android Support Repository 21.0.0.

### Node.js 0.12.0 problems on OS X
**NativeScript CLI version:** 0.9.0

**Problem:** On OS X systems with Node.js 0.12.0 installed, you cannot work with the NativeScript CLI 0.9.0.<br/>For additional information, see [GitHub Issue #268: OSX issue with node 0.12.0](https://github.com/NativeScript/nativescript-cli/issues/268).

**Workaround:** You can choose between the following workarounds.
* Update the NativeScript CLI to 0.9.1.
* Revert Node.js to 0.10.36.

### Cannot run or debug apps on iOS 8.1.3 devices with Xcode 6.1

**Problem:** On OS X systems with Xcode 6.1 installed, you cannot run or debug apps on iOS 8.1.3 devices.<br/>The developer disk images provided with the iOS SDK in Xcode 6.1 are not compatible with iOS 8.1.3. The NativeScript CLI uses these disk images to work with your attached iOS devices.

**Workaround:** Update to Xcode 6.1.1 or later.

### `Debug` command times out on Android device

**Problem:** The `debug` command times out when you attempt to debug on Android devices or emulators and the debug tools do not start.<br/>The `debug` command is configured with a 30-second timeout. On slower computer configurations, the CLI might exceed this timeout when connecting to your Android devices or emulators.

**Workaround:** Re-run the `debug` command.

### The debug tools for Android never launch on OS X system

**Problem:** The NativeScript CLI uses the [opener npm package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/opener) to open Chrome. The current version of the package that the CLI uses cannot open the browser.

**Workaround:** Update the opener package to a newer version. If this does not resolve the issue, try modifying your local copy of the package.

## User Experience

### Very slow first launch on Android device

**Problem:** When you run your app on Android device for the first time, the app loads very slowly and might appear to be unresponsive.<br/>The issue reoccurs on every redeployment.

**Workaround:** None. Wait for the app to load.

The NativeScript team is working on improving the performance of Android apps on initial run.

Commit message:

Added notes about installing cocoapods
I ran into this issue and found the above solution in the NativeScript google group, so I thought I would add a short note about how to fix the problem in the troubleshooting section.

start/troubleshooting.md, after:

---
title: Troubleshooting
description: Known issues with NativeScript and their workarounds
position: 9
slug: troubleshooting
previous_url: /troubleshooting
---

# Known Issues and Limitations

* [CLI](#cli)
* [User Experience](#user-experience)

## CLI

### Error thrown when attempting to run build-related operations for Android

```Shell
FAILURE: Build failed with an exception.

* What went wrong:
A problem occurred configuring root project 'app_name'.
> Could not resolve all dependencies for configuration ':_debugCompile'.
```

**Workaround:** Run `$ android` to launch the Android SDK Manager and download the Android Support Repository 21.0.0.

### Node.js 0.12.0 problems on OS X
**NativeScript CLI version:** 0.9.0

**Problem:** On OS X systems with Node.js 0.12.0 installed, you cannot work with the NativeScript CLI 0.9.0.<br/>For additional information, see [GitHub Issue #268: OSX issue with node 0.12.0](https://github.com/NativeScript/nativescript-cli/issues/268).

**Workaround:** You can choose between the following workarounds.
* Update the NativeScript CLI to 0.9.1.
* Revert Node.js to 0.10.36.

### Cannot run or debug apps on iOS 8.1.3 devices with Xcode 6.1

**Problem:** On OS X systems with Xcode 6.1 installed, you cannot run or debug apps on iOS 8.1.3 devices.<br/>The developer disk images provided with the iOS SDK in Xcode 6.1 are not compatible with iOS 8.1.3. The NativeScript CLI uses these disk images to work with your attached iOS devices.

**Workaround:** Update to Xcode 6.1.1 or later.

### `Debug` command times out on Android device

**Problem:** The `debug` command times out when you attempt to debug on Android devices or emulators and the debug tools do not start.<br/>The `debug` command is configured with a 30-second timeout. On slower computer configurations, the CLI might exceed this timeout when connecting to your Android devices or emulators.

**Workaround:** Re-run the `debug` command.

### The debug tools for Android never launch on OS X system

**Problem:** The NativeScript CLI uses the [opener npm package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/opener) to open Chrome. The current version of the package that the CLI uses cannot open the browser.

**Workaround:** Update the opener package to a newer version. If this does not resolve the issue, try modifying your local copy of the package.

### Cocoapod install fails on OS X system

**Problem** The cocoapod install fails when creating a shallow clone of spec repo 'master'.  The actual error should look something like
```
Creating shallow clone of spec repo 'master' from 'https://github.com/CocoaPods/Specs.git'
[!] Unable to add a source with url 'https://github.com/CocoaPods/Specs.git' named 'master'.
You can try adding it manually in '~/.cocoapods/repos' or via 'pod repo add'.
```

**Workaround** There are 3 methods to try to fix this issue:
  1. Make sure that you tried to install cocoapods initially by `sudo gem install cocoapods`
  1. Type `pod setup`
  1. If neither of the above fix the problem, try adding the directories `~\.cocoapods` and `~\.cocoapods\repos`

## User Experience

### Very slow first launch on Android device

**Problem:** When you run your app on Android device for the first time, the app loads very slowly and might appear to be unresponsive.<br/>The issue reoccurs on every redeployment.

**Workaround:** None. Wait for the app to load.

The NativeScript team is working on improving the performance of Android apps on initial run.
