docs/get-support.md, before:

---
title: Get support
description: Known issues with NativeScript, and where to get help when you run into problems
position: 130
slug: get-support
publish: true
---

# Get support

* [Where to get help](#where-to-get-help)
* [Known issues and limitations](#known-issues-and-limitations)

> **Installation Troubles?** Try [NativeScript Sidekick](https://www.nativescript.org/nativescript-sidekick) for a one-click setup experience for macOS, Windows, and Linux. Sidekick installs the NativeScript CLI and required dependencies for macOS and Windows - and offers starter kits, cloud-based builds for iOS and Android, and app store publishing.

## Where to get help

The NativeScript framework has a vibrant community that’s here to help when you run into problems.

If you hit an issue, start by seeing if anyone else has reported the problem on [the NativeScript community forum](http://forum.nativescript.org/). If you can’t find any information, try creating a new forum topic with any details needed to recreate the issue.

If you’ve found an issue with the NativeScript framework itself, please report the problem in the appropriate GitHub repository.

- [NativeScript CLI](https://github.com/nativescript/nativescript-cli/issues)
- [NativeScript modules](https://github.com/nativescript/nativescript/issues)
- [NativeScript documentation](https://github.com/nativescript/docs)
- [NativeScript iOS runtime](https://github.com/nativescript/ios-runtime)
- [NativeScript Android runtime](https://github.com/nativescript/android-runtime)

Commit message:

updating forum references to stack overflow

docs/get-support.md, after:

---
title: Get support
description: Known issues with NativeScript, and where to get help when you run into problems
position: 130
slug: get-support
publish: true
---

# Get support

* [Where to get help](#where-to-get-help)
* [Known issues and limitations](#known-issues-and-limitations)

> **Installation Troubles?** Try [NativeScript Sidekick](https://www.nativescript.org/nativescript-sidekick) for a one-click setup experience for macOS, Windows, and Linux. Sidekick installs the NativeScript CLI and required dependencies for macOS and Windows - and offers starter kits, cloud-based builds for iOS and Android, and app store publishing.

## Where to get help

The NativeScript framework has a vibrant community that’s here to help when you run into problems.

If you hit an issue, start by seeing if anyone else has reported the problem on [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/nativescript) or [the deprecated NativeScript community forum](https://discourse.nativescript.org/). If you can’t find any information, try creating a new question on Stack Overflow with any details needed to recreate the issue.

If you’ve found an issue with the NativeScript framework itself, please report the problem in the appropriate GitHub repository.

- [NativeScript CLI](https://github.com/nativescript/nativescript-cli/issues)
- [NativeScript modules](https://github.com/nativescript/nativescript/issues)
- [NativeScript documentation](https://github.com/nativescript/docs)
- [NativeScript iOS runtime](https://github.com/nativescript/ios-runtime)
- [NativeScript Android runtime](https://github.com/nativescript/android-runtime)
