ui/styling.md, before:

---
title: Styling
description: How to use Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) in NativeScript to change the appearance of GUI elements
position: 50
slug: styling
previous_url: /styling
---

# Styling

This article includes the following topics:

* [Introduction](#introduction)
* [Applying CSS Styles](#applying-css-styles)
* [Supported Selectors](#supported-selectors)
* [Supported CSS Properties](#supported-css-properties)
* [Accessing NativeScript component properties with CSS](#accessing-nativeScript-component-properties-with-css)
* [Using Fonts](#using-fonts)
* [Import External CSS](#import-external-css)
* [CSS parser playground](http://iamdustan.com/reworkcss_ast_explorer/)

## Introduction

You change the looks and appearance of views (elements) in a NativeScript application similarly to how you do it in a web application&mdash;using Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) or changing the style object of the elements in JavaScript. Only a subset of the CSS language is supported.

Similarly to the [DOM Style Object](http://www.w3schools.com/jsref/dom_obj_style.asp), each View instance exposes a **style** property, which holds all the style properties for the view. When the view is displayed, all its style properties are applied to the underlying native widget.

## Applying CSS styles
The CSS styles can be set on 3 different levels:

* [Application-wide CSS](#application-wide-css): Applies to every application page
{% nativescript %}
* [Page-specific CSS](#page-specific-css): Applies to the page's UI views
{% endnativescript %}
{% angular %}
* [Component-specific CSS](#component-specific-css): Applies for component only
{% endangular %}
* [Inline CSS](#inline-css): Applies directly to a UI view

If there is CSS declared on different levels&mdash;all will be applied. The inline CSS will have the highest priority and the application CSS will have the lowest priority.

### Application-wide CSS

When the  application starts, NativeScript checks if the file `app.css` exists. If it does, any CSS styles that it contains are loaded and used across all application pages. This file is a convenient place to store styles that will be used on multiple pages.

You can change the name of the file from which the application-wide CSS is loaded. You need to do the change before the application is started, usually in the app.js or app.ts file as shown below:

{% nativescript %}
``` JavaScript
var application = require("application");
application.cssFile = "style.css";

application.start({ moduleName: "main-page" });
```
``` TypeScript
import application = require("application");
application.cssFile = "style.css";

application.start({ moduleName: "main-page" });
```
{% endnativescript %}
{% angular %}

```TypeScript
nativeScriptBootstrap(ListTest, null, {"cssFile": "style.css"});
```

{% endangular %}
> The path to the CSS file is relative to the application root folder.

{% nativescript %}
### Page-specific CSS

When the page's XML declaration file is loaded, NativeScript looks for a CSS file with the same name (if such exists), reads any CSS styles that it finds and automatically loads and applies them to the page.

You can override CSS styles specified in the file by using the page's `css` property:

```JavaScript
page.css = "button { color: red }";
```
```TypeScript
page.css = "button { color: red }";
```

After you have set the default CSS for the page, you can add to it using two methods: adding CSS from a string and adding CSS from a file.
{% endnativescript %}
{% angular %}
### Component-specific CSS

In an Angular application everything is a component, therefore, it is a very common task to add some CSS code that should only apply to one component. Adding component-specific CSS in a NativeScript-Angular app involves using a component’s `styles` or `styleUrls` property.

```TypeScript
@Component({
    selector: 'list-test',
    styles: ['.third { background-color: lime; }'],
    template: ...
```

```TypeScript
@Component({
    selector: 'list-test',
    styleUrls: ['style.css'],
    template: ...
```

In each of these examples, the CSS rules will only apply to the declared component, and not other UI elements in the application.

> The `styles` and `styleUrls` will be applied even if the component is moved to another page within the application.

{% endangular %}

#### Adding CSS from a string

This snippet adds a new style to the current set of styles. This is quite useful when you need to add a small CSS chunk to an element (for example, for testing purposes):

``` JavaScript
page.addCss("button {background-color: blue}");
```
``` TypeScript
page.addCss("button {background-color: blue}");
```

#### Adding CSS from a file

This snippet adds new CSS styles to the current set. However, this method reads them from a file. It is useful for organizing styles in files and reusing them across multiple pages.

``` JavaScript
page.addCssFile(cssFileName);
```
``` TypeScript
page.addCssFile(cssFileName);
```

> The path to the CSS file is relative to the application root folder.

### Inline CSS

Similarly to HTML, CSS can be defined inline for a UI view in the XML markup:

{% nativescript %}
```XML
<Button text="inline style" style="background-color: green;" />
```
{% endnativescript %}
{% angular %}
```XML
<Button text="inline style" style="background-color: green;"></Button>
```
{% endangular %}

## Supported selectors

> Currently the CSS support is limited only to the selectors and properties listed in the current article.

NativeScript supports a subset of the [CSS selector syntax](http://www.w3schools.com/cssref/css_selectors.asp). Here is how to use the supported selectors:

* [Type selector](#type-selector)
* [Class selector](#class-selector)
* [ID selector](#id-selector)
* [Hierarchical selector](#hierachical-selector-css-combinators)
* [Attribute selector](#attribute-selector)
* [Pseudo selector](#pseudo-selector)

### Type selector
Like [CSS element selectors](http://www.w3schools.com/cssref/sel_element.asp), type selectors in NativeScript select all views of a given type. Type selectors are case insensitive, so you can use both `button` and `Button`.

```CSS
button { background-color: gray }
```

### Class selector
[Class selectors](http://www.w3schools.com/cssref/sel_class.asp) select all views with a given class.
The class is set using the `cssClass` property of the view.

{% nativescript %}
```CSS
.title { font-size: 32 }
```
```JavaScript
var label = new labelModule.Label();
label.cssClass = "title"
```
```TypeScript
var label = new labelModule.Label();
label.cssClass = "title"
```
```XML
<Label cssClass="title" />
```
{% endnativescript %}
{% angular %}
```CSS
.title { font-size: 32 }
```
```JavaScript
var label = new labelModule.Label();
label.cssClass = "title"
```
```TypeScript
var label = new labelModule.Label();
label.cssClass = "title"
```
```XML
<Label cssClass="title" ></Label>
```
{% endangular %}

### ID selector
[Id selectors](http://www.w3schools.com/cssref/sel_id.asp) select all views with a given id.
The id is set using the `id` property of the view.

{% nativescript %}
```CSS
#login-button { background-color: blue }
```
```JavaScript
var btn = new buttonModule.Button();
btn.id = "login-button"
```
```TypeScript
var btn = new buttonModule.Button();
btn.id = "login-button"
```
```XML
<Button id="login-button" />
```
{% endnativescript %}
{% angular %}
```CSS
#login-button { background-color: blue }
```
```JavaScript
var btn = new buttonModule.Button();
btn.id = "login-button"
```
```TypeScript
var btn = new buttonModule.Button();
btn.id = "login-button"
```
```XML
<Button id="login-button" ></Button>
```
{% endangular %}

### Hierachical selector (CSS combinators)

A CSS selector could contain more than one simple selector, and between selectors a combinator symbol could be included.

* (space) - Descendant selector. For example, the following code will select all buttons inside StackLayouts (no matter) at which level.

{% nativescript %}
```CSS
StackLayout Button { background-color: blue; }
```
```XML
<StackLayout>
    <WrapLayout>
        <Button id="login-button" testAttr='flower' />
    </WrapLayout>
</StackLayout>
```
{% endnativescript %}
{% angular %}
```CSS
StackLayout Button { background-color: blue; }
```
```XML
<StackLayout>
    <WrapLayout>
        <Button id="login-button" testAttr='flower' ></Button>
    </WrapLayout>
</StackLayout>
```
{% endangular %}

* (>) - A direct child selector. Using the previous example, if the CSS is changed to:

```CSS
StackLayout > Button { background-color: blue; }
```

The `background-color` rule will not be applied. In order to apply the selector, the WrapLayout element would need to be removed so that the Button is a direct child of the StackLayout.

### Attribute selector

{% nativescript %}
```CSS
button[testAttr]{ background-color: blue; }
```
```XML
<Button testAttr="flower" />
```
{% endnativescript %}
{% angular %}
```CSS
button[testAttr]{ background-color: blue; }
```
```XML
<Button testAttr="flower" ></Button>
```
{% endangular %}

This selector will select all buttons that have the attribute `testAttr` with some value.

Also, some more advanced scenarios are supported:

* button[testAttr='flower'] {...} - Will apply CAA on every button that has the `testAttr` property set exactly to the value `flower`.
* button[testAttr~='flower'] {...} - Selects all buttons with a `testAttr` property that contains a space-separated list of words, one of which is "flower".
* button[testAttr|='flower'] {...} - Selects all buttons with a `testAttr` property value that begins with "flower". The value has to be a whole word, either alone like `btn['testAttr'] = 'flower'`, or followed by hyphen (-), like `btn['testAttr'] = 'flower-house'`.
* button[testAttr^='flower'] {...} - Selects all buttons with a `testAttr` property value that begins with "flower". The value does not have to be a whole word.
* button[testAttr$='flower'] {...} - Selects all buttons with a `testAttr` property value that ends with "flower". The value does not have to be a whole word.
* button[testAttr*='flo'] {...} - Selects all buttons with a `testAttr` property value that contains "flo". The value does not have to be a whole word.

Attribute selectors could be used alone or could be combined with all type of CSS selectors. 

{% nativescript %}
```CSS
#login-button[testAttr='flower'] { background-color: blue; }
[testAttr] {color: white;}
```
```XML
<Button id="login-button" testAttr='flower' />
<Label testAttr="some value" />
```
{% endnativescript %}
{% angular %}
```CSS
#login-button[testAttr='flower'] { background-color: blue; }
[testAttr] {color: white;}
```
```XML
<Button id="login-button" testAttr='flower' ></Button>
<Label testAttr="some value" ></Label>
```
{% endangular %}

### Pseudo selector
A pseudo-selector or also pseudo-class is used to define a special state of an element.
Currently, NativeScript supports only `:highlighted` pseudo-selector.

{% nativescript %}

```CSS
button:highlighted { background-color: red; color: gray;}
```
```XML
<Button testAttr='flower' />
```
{% endnativescript %}

## Supported CSS properties

This list of properties can be set in CSS or through the style property of each view:

| CSS Property          | JavaScript Property   | Description     |
|:----------------------|:----------------------|:----------------|
| `color`               | `color`               | Sets a solid-color value to the matched view’s foreground. |
| `background-color`    | `backgroundColor`     | Sets a solid-color value to the matched view’s background. |
| `background-image`    | `backgroundImage`     | Sets a image url to the matched view’s background image. |
| `background-repeat`   | `backgroundRepeat`    | Sets if/how the background image should be repeated. Possible values: `repeat`, `repeat-x`, `repeat-y`, `no-repeat` |
| `background-position` | `backgroundPosition`  | Sets the starting position of the background image. You can set the position with absolute, percent or alignment values. More info [here](http://www.w3schools.com/cssref/pr_background-position.asp). |
| `background-size`     | `backgroundSize`      | Sets the size of the background image. Possible values: "*length length*", "*percent% percent%*", "cover" or "contain". |
| `border-color`        | `borderColor`         | Sets a border color to the matched view’s. |
| `border-width`        | `borderWidth`         | Sets a border width to the matched view’s. |
| `border-radius`       | `borderRadius`        | Sets a border radius to the matched view’s. |
| `font`                | `font`                | Sets the font properties (this includes `font-family`, `font-size`, `font-style` and `font-weight`)  of the matched view. |
| `font-family`         | `fontFamily`          | Sets the font family of the matched view. |
| `font-size`           | `fontSize`            | Sets the font size of the matched view (only supports device-independent units). |
| `font-style`          | `fontStyle`           | Sets the font style of the matched view. Possible values: `italic`, `normal`. |
| `font-weight`         | `fontWeight`          | Sets the font weight of the matched view Possible values: `bold`, `normal`. |
| `text-align`          | `textAlignment`       | Sets text alignment in the matched view. Possible values: `left` , `center`, `right`. |
| `text-decoration`     | `textDecoration`      | Sets the text formatting. Possible values: `none`, `line-through`, `underline`. |
| `text-transform`      | `textTransform`       | Sets the text transform. Possible values: `none`, `capitalize`, `uppercase`, `lowercase`. |
| `letter-spacing`      | `letterSpacing`       | Sets the text letter spacing. (On Android API Level 21 and above.) |
| `z-index`             | `zIndex`              | Sets the z-index. (On Android API Level 21 and above.) |
| `clip-path`           | `clip-path`           | Sets the clip-path. Supported shapes are circle, ellipse, rect and polygon. You can define your own shape using [clippy](http://bennettfeely.com/clippy/)  |
| `vertical-align`      | `verticalAlignment`   | Sets the vertical alignment of the current view within its parent. Possible values: `top`, `center`, `bottom`, `stretch`. |
| `horizontal-align`    | `horizontalAlignment` | Sets the horizontal alignment of the current view within its parent. Possible values: `left`, `center`, `right`, `stretch`. |
| `margin`              | `margin`              | Sets the margin of the view within its parent. |
| `margin-top`          | `marginTop`           | Sets the top margin of the view within its parent. |
| `margin-right`        | `marginRight`         | Sets the right margin of the view within its parent. |
| `margin-bottom`       | `marginBottom`        | Sets the bottom margin of the view within its parent. |
| `margin-left`         | `marginLeft`          | Sets the left margin of the view within its parent. |
| `width`               | `width`               | Sets the view width. |
| `height`              | `height`              | Sets the view height. |
| `min-width`           | `minWidth`            | Sets the minimal view width. |
| `min-height`          | `minHeight`           | Sets the minimal view height. |
| `padding`             | `padding`             | Sets the distance between the boundaries of the layout container and its children. |
| `padding-top`         | `paddingTop`          | Sets the top padding of a layout container. |
| `padding-right`       | `paddingRight`        | Sets the right padding of a layout container. |
| `padding-bottom`      | `paddingBottom`       | Sets the bottom padding of a layout container. |
| `padding-left`        | `paddingLeft`         | Sets the left padding of a layout container. |
| `visibility`          | `visibility`          | Sets the view visibility. Possible values: `visible`, `collapse` (or `collapsed`). |
| `opacity`             | `opacity`             | Sets the view opacity. The value is in the [0, 1] range. |

## Accessing NativeScript component properties with CSS

You can set NativeScript component properties value that are not part of the CSS specification. For example:
```CSS
StackLayout {
   orientation: horizontal;
}
```

This feature is limited to properties with simple types like string, number and boolean, and will set a local property value similar to component markup declaration in XML. CSS cascading and inheritance are not supported. 

## Using fonts
The `font-family` property can hold several values. The first supported font in the list will be used. There is also support for the following generic font-families:
* serif (ex. Times New Roman)
* sans-serif (ex. Helvetica)
* monospace (ex. Courier New)

Platform specifics:
* Android: The supported fonts depend very much on the system, thus using the generic font-families or [custom-fonts](#custom-fonts) is recommended.
* iOS: You can check the [supported fonts in iOS 7](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT202771).

### Custom fonts
You can use custom fonts in your app (in .TTF or .OTF format). 
The NativeScript runtime will look for the font files under the `app/fonts/` directory and load them automatically.

![Custom fonts setup"](../img/font-images/custom-fonts.png "Custom fonts setup")

> Note: In iOS your font file should be named **exactly** as the font name. 
If you have doubt about the original font name use [Font Book](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT201749) app to get the original font name.

## Import external CSS
The @import CSS rule allows you to import external CSS from local file, resource or url. These rules must precede all other types of rules.

```CSS
@import { url('http://some-domain.com/your-style.css') }
@import { url('res://your-style.css') }
@import { url('~/your-style.css') }
```

Commit message:

Add placeholder-color to the list of supported CSS properties
Closes #537

ui/styling.md, after:

---
title: Styling
description: How to use Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) in NativeScript to change the appearance of GUI elements
position: 50
slug: styling
previous_url: /styling
---

# Styling

This article includes the following topics:

* [Introduction](#introduction)
* [Applying CSS Styles](#applying-css-styles)
* [Supported Selectors](#supported-selectors)
* [Supported CSS Properties](#supported-css-properties)
* [Accessing NativeScript component properties with CSS](#accessing-nativeScript-component-properties-with-css)
* [Using Fonts](#using-fonts)
* [Import External CSS](#import-external-css)
* [CSS parser playground](http://iamdustan.com/reworkcss_ast_explorer/)

## Introduction

You change the looks and appearance of views (elements) in a NativeScript application similarly to how you do it in a web application&mdash;using Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) or changing the style object of the elements in JavaScript. Only a subset of the CSS language is supported.

Similarly to the [DOM Style Object](http://www.w3schools.com/jsref/dom_obj_style.asp), each View instance exposes a **style** property, which holds all the style properties for the view. When the view is displayed, all its style properties are applied to the underlying native widget.

## Applying CSS styles
The CSS styles can be set on 3 different levels:

* [Application-wide CSS](#application-wide-css): Applies to every application page
{% nativescript %}
* [Page-specific CSS](#page-specific-css): Applies to the page's UI views
{% endnativescript %}
{% angular %}
* [Component-specific CSS](#component-specific-css): Applies for component only
{% endangular %}
* [Inline CSS](#inline-css): Applies directly to a UI view

If there is CSS declared on different levels&mdash;all will be applied. The inline CSS will have the highest priority and the application CSS will have the lowest priority.

### Application-wide CSS

When the  application starts, NativeScript checks if the file `app.css` exists. If it does, any CSS styles that it contains are loaded and used across all application pages. This file is a convenient place to store styles that will be used on multiple pages.

You can change the name of the file from which the application-wide CSS is loaded. You need to do the change before the application is started, usually in the app.js or app.ts file as shown below:

{% nativescript %}
``` JavaScript
var application = require("application");
application.cssFile = "style.css";

application.start({ moduleName: "main-page" });
```
``` TypeScript
import application = require("application");
application.cssFile = "style.css";

application.start({ moduleName: "main-page" });
```
{% endnativescript %}
{% angular %}

```TypeScript
nativeScriptBootstrap(ListTest, null, {"cssFile": "style.css"});
```

{% endangular %}
> The path to the CSS file is relative to the application root folder.

{% nativescript %}
### Page-specific CSS

When the page's XML declaration file is loaded, NativeScript looks for a CSS file with the same name (if such exists), reads any CSS styles that it finds and automatically loads and applies them to the page.

You can override CSS styles specified in the file by using the page's `css` property:

```JavaScript
page.css = "button { color: red }";
```
```TypeScript
page.css = "button { color: red }";
```

After you have set the default CSS for the page, you can add to it using two methods: adding CSS from a string and adding CSS from a file.
{% endnativescript %}
{% angular %}
### Component-specific CSS

In an Angular application everything is a component, therefore, it is a very common task to add some CSS code that should only apply to one component. Adding component-specific CSS in a NativeScript-Angular app involves using a component’s `styles` or `styleUrls` property.

```TypeScript
@Component({
    selector: 'list-test',
    styles: ['.third { background-color: lime; }'],
    template: ...
```

```TypeScript
@Component({
    selector: 'list-test',
    styleUrls: ['style.css'],
    template: ...
```

In each of these examples, the CSS rules will only apply to the declared component, and not other UI elements in the application.

> The `styles` and `styleUrls` will be applied even if the component is moved to another page within the application.

{% endangular %}

#### Adding CSS from a string

This snippet adds a new style to the current set of styles. This is quite useful when you need to add a small CSS chunk to an element (for example, for testing purposes):

``` JavaScript
page.addCss("button {background-color: blue}");
```
``` TypeScript
page.addCss("button {background-color: blue}");
```

#### Adding CSS from a file

This snippet adds new CSS styles to the current set. However, this method reads them from a file. It is useful for organizing styles in files and reusing them across multiple pages.

``` JavaScript
page.addCssFile(cssFileName);
```
``` TypeScript
page.addCssFile(cssFileName);
```

> The path to the CSS file is relative to the application root folder.

### Inline CSS

Similarly to HTML, CSS can be defined inline for a UI view in the XML markup:

{% nativescript %}
```XML
<Button text="inline style" style="background-color: green;" />
```
{% endnativescript %}
{% angular %}
```XML
<Button text="inline style" style="background-color: green;"></Button>
```
{% endangular %}

## Supported selectors

> Currently the CSS support is limited only to the selectors and properties listed in the current article.

NativeScript supports a subset of the [CSS selector syntax](http://www.w3schools.com/cssref/css_selectors.asp). Here is how to use the supported selectors:

* [Type selector](#type-selector)
* [Class selector](#class-selector)
* [ID selector](#id-selector)
* [Hierarchical selector](#hierachical-selector-css-combinators)
* [Attribute selector](#attribute-selector)
* [Pseudo selector](#pseudo-selector)

### Type selector
Like [CSS element selectors](http://www.w3schools.com/cssref/sel_element.asp), type selectors in NativeScript select all views of a given type. Type selectors are case insensitive, so you can use both `button` and `Button`.

```CSS
button { background-color: gray }
```

### Class selector
[Class selectors](http://www.w3schools.com/cssref/sel_class.asp) select all views with a given class.
The class is set using the `cssClass` property of the view.

{% nativescript %}
```CSS
.title { font-size: 32 }
```
```JavaScript
var label = new labelModule.Label();
label.cssClass = "title"
```
```TypeScript
var label = new labelModule.Label();
label.cssClass = "title"
```
```XML
<Label cssClass="title" />
```
{% endnativescript %}
{% angular %}
```CSS
.title { font-size: 32 }
```
```JavaScript
var label = new labelModule.Label();
label.cssClass = "title"
```
```TypeScript
var label = new labelModule.Label();
label.cssClass = "title"
```
```XML
<Label cssClass="title" ></Label>
```
{% endangular %}

### ID selector
[Id selectors](http://www.w3schools.com/cssref/sel_id.asp) select all views with a given id.
The id is set using the `id` property of the view.

{% nativescript %}
```CSS
#login-button { background-color: blue }
```
```JavaScript
var btn = new buttonModule.Button();
btn.id = "login-button"
```
```TypeScript
var btn = new buttonModule.Button();
btn.id = "login-button"
```
```XML
<Button id="login-button" />
```
{% endnativescript %}
{% angular %}
```CSS
#login-button { background-color: blue }
```
```JavaScript
var btn = new buttonModule.Button();
btn.id = "login-button"
```
```TypeScript
var btn = new buttonModule.Button();
btn.id = "login-button"
```
```XML
<Button id="login-button" ></Button>
```
{% endangular %}

### Hierachical selector (CSS combinators)

A CSS selector could contain more than one simple selector, and between selectors a combinator symbol could be included.

* (space) - Descendant selector. For example, the following code will select all buttons inside StackLayouts (no matter) at which level.

{% nativescript %}
```CSS
StackLayout Button { background-color: blue; }
```
```XML
<StackLayout>
    <WrapLayout>
        <Button id="login-button" testAttr='flower' />
    </WrapLayout>
</StackLayout>
```
{% endnativescript %}
{% angular %}
```CSS
StackLayout Button { background-color: blue; }
```
```XML
<StackLayout>
    <WrapLayout>
        <Button id="login-button" testAttr='flower' ></Button>
    </WrapLayout>
</StackLayout>
```
{% endangular %}

* (>) - A direct child selector. Using the previous example, if the CSS is changed to:

```CSS
StackLayout > Button { background-color: blue; }
```

The `background-color` rule will not be applied. In order to apply the selector, the WrapLayout element would need to be removed so that the Button is a direct child of the StackLayout.

### Attribute selector

{% nativescript %}
```CSS
button[testAttr]{ background-color: blue; }
```
```XML
<Button testAttr="flower" />
```
{% endnativescript %}
{% angular %}
```CSS
button[testAttr]{ background-color: blue; }
```
```XML
<Button testAttr="flower" ></Button>
```
{% endangular %}

This selector will select all buttons that have the attribute `testAttr` with some value.

Also, some more advanced scenarios are supported:

* button[testAttr='flower'] {...} - Will apply CAA on every button that has the `testAttr` property set exactly to the value `flower`.
* button[testAttr~='flower'] {...} - Selects all buttons with a `testAttr` property that contains a space-separated list of words, one of which is "flower".
* button[testAttr|='flower'] {...} - Selects all buttons with a `testAttr` property value that begins with "flower". The value has to be a whole word, either alone like `btn['testAttr'] = 'flower'`, or followed by hyphen (-), like `btn['testAttr'] = 'flower-house'`.
* button[testAttr^='flower'] {...} - Selects all buttons with a `testAttr` property value that begins with "flower". The value does not have to be a whole word.
* button[testAttr$='flower'] {...} - Selects all buttons with a `testAttr` property value that ends with "flower". The value does not have to be a whole word.
* button[testAttr*='flo'] {...} - Selects all buttons with a `testAttr` property value that contains "flo". The value does not have to be a whole word.

Attribute selectors could be used alone or could be combined with all type of CSS selectors. 

{% nativescript %}
```CSS
#login-button[testAttr='flower'] { background-color: blue; }
[testAttr] {color: white;}
```
```XML
<Button id="login-button" testAttr='flower' />
<Label testAttr="some value" />
```
{% endnativescript %}
{% angular %}
```CSS
#login-button[testAttr='flower'] { background-color: blue; }
[testAttr] {color: white;}
```
```XML
<Button id="login-button" testAttr='flower' ></Button>
<Label testAttr="some value" ></Label>
```
{% endangular %}

### Pseudo selector
A pseudo-selector or also pseudo-class is used to define a special state of an element.
Currently, NativeScript supports only `:highlighted` pseudo-selector.

{% nativescript %}

```CSS
button:highlighted { background-color: red; color: gray;}
```
```XML
<Button testAttr='flower' />
```
{% endnativescript %}

## Supported CSS properties

This list of properties can be set in CSS or through the style property of each view:

| CSS Property          | JavaScript Property   | Description     |
|:----------------------|:----------------------|:----------------|
| `color`               | `color`               | Sets a solid-color value to the matched view’s foreground. |
| `background-color`    | `backgroundColor`     | Sets a solid-color value to the matched view’s background. |
| `placeholder-color`   | `placeholderColor`    | Sets the placeholder (hint) font color to matched views. |
| `background-image`    | `backgroundImage`     | Sets a image url to the matched view’s background image. |
| `background-repeat`   | `backgroundRepeat`    | Sets if/how the background image should be repeated. Possible values: `repeat`, `repeat-x`, `repeat-y`, `no-repeat` |
| `background-position` | `backgroundPosition`  | Sets the starting position of the background image. You can set the position with absolute, percent or alignment values. More info [here](http://www.w3schools.com/cssref/pr_background-position.asp). |
| `background-size`     | `backgroundSize`      | Sets the size of the background image. Possible values: "*length length*", "*percent% percent%*", "cover" or "contain". |
| `border-color`        | `borderColor`         | Sets a border color to the matched view’s. |
| `border-width`        | `borderWidth`         | Sets a border width to the matched view’s. |
| `border-radius`       | `borderRadius`        | Sets a border radius to the matched view’s. |
| `font`                | `font`                | Sets the font properties (this includes `font-family`, `font-size`, `font-style` and `font-weight`)  of the matched view. |
| `font-family`         | `fontFamily`          | Sets the font family of the matched view. |
| `font-size`           | `fontSize`            | Sets the font size of the matched view (only supports device-independent units). |
| `font-style`          | `fontStyle`           | Sets the font style of the matched view. Possible values: `italic`, `normal`. |
| `font-weight`         | `fontWeight`          | Sets the font weight of the matched view Possible values: `bold`, `normal`. |
| `text-align`          | `textAlignment`       | Sets text alignment in the matched view. Possible values: `left` , `center`, `right`. |
| `text-decoration`     | `textDecoration`      | Sets the text formatting. Possible values: `none`, `line-through`, `underline`. |
| `text-transform`      | `textTransform`       | Sets the text transform. Possible values: `none`, `capitalize`, `uppercase`, `lowercase`. |
| `letter-spacing`      | `letterSpacing`       | Sets the text letter spacing. (On Android API Level 21 and above.) |
| `z-index`             | `zIndex`              | Sets the z-index. (On Android API Level 21 and above.) |
| `clip-path`           | `clip-path`           | Sets the clip-path. Supported shapes are circle, ellipse, rect and polygon. You can define your own shape using [clippy](http://bennettfeely.com/clippy/)  |
| `vertical-align`      | `verticalAlignment`   | Sets the vertical alignment of the current view within its parent. Possible values: `top`, `center`, `bottom`, `stretch`. |
| `horizontal-align`    | `horizontalAlignment` | Sets the horizontal alignment of the current view within its parent. Possible values: `left`, `center`, `right`, `stretch`. |
| `margin`              | `margin`              | Sets the margin of the view within its parent. |
| `margin-top`          | `marginTop`           | Sets the top margin of the view within its parent. |
| `margin-right`        | `marginRight`         | Sets the right margin of the view within its parent. |
| `margin-bottom`       | `marginBottom`        | Sets the bottom margin of the view within its parent. |
| `margin-left`         | `marginLeft`          | Sets the left margin of the view within its parent. |
| `width`               | `width`               | Sets the view width. |
| `height`              | `height`              | Sets the view height. |
| `min-width`           | `minWidth`            | Sets the minimal view width. |
| `min-height`          | `minHeight`           | Sets the minimal view height. |
| `padding`             | `padding`             | Sets the distance between the boundaries of the layout container and its children. |
| `padding-top`         | `paddingTop`          | Sets the top padding of a layout container. |
| `padding-right`       | `paddingRight`        | Sets the right padding of a layout container. |
| `padding-bottom`      | `paddingBottom`       | Sets the bottom padding of a layout container. |
| `padding-left`        | `paddingLeft`         | Sets the left padding of a layout container. |
| `visibility`          | `visibility`          | Sets the view visibility. Possible values: `visible`, `collapse` (or `collapsed`). |
| `opacity`             | `opacity`             | Sets the view opacity. The value is in the [0, 1] range. |

## Accessing NativeScript component properties with CSS

You can set NativeScript component properties value that are not part of the CSS specification. For example:
```CSS
StackLayout {
   orientation: horizontal;
}
```

This feature is limited to properties with simple types like string, number and boolean, and will set a local property value similar to component markup declaration in XML. CSS cascading and inheritance are not supported. 

## Using fonts
The `font-family` property can hold several values. The first supported font in the list will be used. There is also support for the following generic font-families:
* serif (ex. Times New Roman)
* sans-serif (ex. Helvetica)
* monospace (ex. Courier New)

Platform specifics:
* Android: The supported fonts depend very much on the system, thus using the generic font-families or [custom-fonts](#custom-fonts) is recommended.
* iOS: You can check the [supported fonts in iOS 7](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT202771).

### Custom fonts
You can use custom fonts in your app (in .TTF or .OTF format). 
The NativeScript runtime will look for the font files under the `app/fonts/` directory and load them automatically.

![Custom fonts setup"](../img/font-images/custom-fonts.png "Custom fonts setup")

> Note: In iOS your font file should be named **exactly** as the font name. 
If you have doubt about the original font name use [Font Book](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT201749) app to get the original font name.

## Import external CSS
The @import CSS rule allows you to import external CSS from local file, resource or url. These rules must precede all other types of rules.

```CSS
@import { url('http://some-domain.com/your-style.css') }
@import { url('res://your-style.css') }
@import { url('~/your-style.css') }
```
