docs/sidekick/user-guide/add-page/add-page.md, before:

---
title: Create New Page 
description: 
position: 1
publish: true
slug: create-new-page
---

# Create New Page 

In {{ site.ns-sk }}, you can quickly generate new pages for your app by using a set of predefined templates. Currently, you can choose between the Blank, Login and Signup templates, but we plan to introduce a lot more in the future. 

When you create a new page, {{ site.sk }} will generate one `HTML` and several `JavaScript` or `TypeScript` files (depending on the project type) and place them in a newly created folder, which is located in the `app` folder of your project. To make the newly created page part of your application, you need to manually connect it to the existing code. For example, add the page in the navigation or place it as an initial view for your app.

## Procedure

1. Launch {{ site.ns-sk }} and open your app.
1. From the top toolbar, select **New Page**.
1. Select one of the available templates - Blank, Login or Signup.
1. Specify a Page Name. This value will be used to name the newly created folder and files.
1. Select **Create Page**.
1. (Optional) Use the **View Files** button to open the app folder of your project and inspect the generated folder and files.

Commit message:

sidekick and tooling description updates
Updated all of the sidekick and tooling docs to include better page descriptions for SEO purposes

docs/sidekick/user-guide/add-page/add-page.md, after:

---
title: Create New Page 
description: Learn how to use NativeScript Sidekick to add a new page, or view, to your app.
position: 1
publish: true
slug: create-new-page
---

# Create New Page 

In {{ site.ns-sk }}, you can quickly generate new pages for your app by using a set of predefined templates. Currently, you can choose between the Blank, Login and Signup templates, but we plan to introduce a lot more in the future. 

When you create a new page, {{ site.sk }} will generate one `HTML` and several `JavaScript` or `TypeScript` files (depending on the project type) and place them in a newly created folder, which is located in the `app` folder of your project. To make the newly created page part of your application, you need to manually connect it to the existing code. For example, add the page in the navigation or place it as an initial view for your app.

## Procedure

1. Launch {{ site.ns-sk }} and open your app.
1. From the top toolbar, select **New Page**.
1. Select one of the available templates - Blank, Login or Signup.
1. Specify a Page Name. This value will be used to name the newly created folder and files.
1. Select **Create Page**.
1. (Optional) Use the **View Files** button to open the app folder of your project and inspect the generated folder and files.
