tooling/debugging.md, before:

---
title: Debugging
description: How to debug {N} applications.
position: 20
slug: debugging
previous_url: /debugging,/core-concepts/debugging
---

# Debugging

You can debug apps developed with the NativeScript framework from both the NativeScript CLI and [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/).

* [Debugger Commands](#debugger-commands)
* [Debugger Options](#debugger-options)
* [Debugging with Visual Studio Code](#debugging-with-visual-studio-code)

## Debugger Commands

> **Note** For more details about `Debugger Command` options, you can use `tns debug android --help` or `tns debug ios --help`.

The `debug` command builds and deploys new package on the connected device/emulator.
It also tracks for changes in the `app` folder which mean it will livesync your application
when changes in your code are saved. On code change & save, the application is restarted automatically.

The debugging agent won't be started automatically by NativeScript-CLI but a link is provided for the user to open in Google Chrome. The link appears in the CLI log after the command is executed. Android and iOS have different links, but both can be opened in Google Chrome. The debugger is attached once the link is opened.

To enable the same behaviour in iOS, the command `tns debug ios --chrome` needs to be execured (there's a special flag because the default action uses Safari as debug agent).


To start the debugger for Android, run the following command:

```Bash
tns debug android
```

To start the debugger for iOS, run the following command:

```Bash
tns debug ios
```

This command starts the platform-specific debugger with the default `--debug-brk` option.

## Debugger Options

You can customize the `tns debug` command using any of the following options:
* `--debug-brk` - Prepares, builds and deploys the application package on a device or in an emulator, launches the browser and stops at the first breakpoint. This option is enabled by default when you run `tns debug` and no other options are specified.
* `--start` - Attaches the debug tools to a deployed and running app.
* `--stop` - Detaches the debug tools.
* `--emulator` - Specifies that you want to debug the app in an emulator.
* `--timeout` - Sets the number of seconds that the NativeScript CLI will wait for the debugger to boot. If not set, the default timeout is 90 seconds.
* `--chrome` - iOS specific flag to generate link for debugging with Google Chrome agent (default is Safari)

For more information about Android debugging, run the following command:

```Bash
tns help debug android
```

For more information about iOS debugging, run the following command:

```Bash
tns help debug ios
```

## Debugging with Visual Studio Code

To debug NativeScript applications in [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/), you need the [NativeScript extension for VS Code](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=Telerik.nativescript). You can find detailed instructions about how to install and set up the NativeScript extension for VS Code [here]({% slug nativescript-extension-for-visual-studio-code %}).

Commit message:

added note for App_Resources

tooling/debugging.md, after:

---
title: Debugging
description: How to debug {N} applications.
position: 20
slug: debugging
previous_url: /debugging,/core-concepts/debugging
---

# Debugging

You can debug apps developed with the NativeScript framework from both the NativeScript CLI and [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/).

* [Debugger Commands](#debugger-commands)
* [Debugger Options](#debugger-options)
* [Debugging with Visual Studio Code](#debugging-with-visual-studio-code)

## Debugger Commands

The `debug` command builds and deploys new package on the connected device/emulator.
It also tracks for changes in the `app` folder which mean it will livesync your application
when changes in your code are saved. On code change & save, the application is restarted automatically.

> **Note** Chagnes inside `App_Resources` folder (e.g. `AndroidManifest.xml`, `info.plist` or any of the resources folders) won't trigger the livesync and the app needs to be rebuild entirely for those to take effect.

The debugging agent won't be started automatically by NativeScript-CLI but a link is provided for the user to open in Google Chrome. The link appears in the CLI log after the command is executed. Android and iOS have different links, but both can be opened in Google Chrome. The debugger is attached once the link is opened.

To enable the same behaviour in iOS, the command `tns debug ios --chrome` needs to be execured (there's a special flag because the default action uses Safari as debug agent).


To start the debugger for Android, run the following command:

```Bash
tns debug android
```

To start the debugger for iOS, run the following command:

```Bash
tns debug ios
```

This command starts the platform-specific debugger with the default `--debug-brk` option.

> **Note** For more details about `Debugger Command` options, you can use `tns debug android --help` or `tns debug ios --help`.

## Debugger Options

You can customize the `tns debug` command using any of the following options:
* `--debug-brk` - Prepares, builds and deploys the application package on a device or in an emulator, launches the browser and stops at the first breakpoint. This option is enabled by default when you run `tns debug` and no other options are specified.
* `--start` - Attaches the debug tools to a deployed and running app.
* `--stop` - Detaches the debug tools.
* `--emulator` - Specifies that you want to debug the app in an emulator.
* `--timeout` - Sets the number of seconds that the NativeScript CLI will wait for the debugger to boot. If not set, the default timeout is 90 seconds.
* `--chrome` - iOS specific flag to generate link for debugging with Google Chrome agent (default is Safari)

For more information about Android debugging, run the following command:

```Bash
tns help debug android
```

For more information about iOS debugging, run the following command:

```Bash
tns help debug ios
```

## Debugging with Visual Studio Code

To debug NativeScript applications in [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/), you need the [NativeScript extension for VS Code](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=Telerik.nativescript). You can find detailed instructions about how to install and set up the NativeScript extension for VS Code [here]({% slug nativescript-extension-for-visual-studio-code %}).
