docs/tutorial/ng-chapter-0.md, before:

---
title: Building Apps with NativeScript and Angular
description: Learn the basics of how NativeScript and Angular work, how to set up your system, and how to create your first app
position: 1
guide: true
environment: angular
---

# Building Apps with NativeScript and Angular

Welcome to the NativeScript & Angular getting started guide. In this hands-on tutorial, you’ll build a cross-platform iOS and Android app from scratch.

## Table of contents

- [0.1: What is NativeScript? What is Angular?](#01-what-is-nativescript-what-is-angular)
- [0.2: Prerequisites](#02-prerequisites)
- [0.3: Installation](#03-installation)

> **TIP**: If you’re a video learner, the third-party site NativeScripting has a [free video course](https://nativescripting.com/course/nativescript-with-angular-getting-started-guide) that walks you through this guide step by step.

## 0.1: What is NativeScript? What is Angular?

<div class="intro-box">
  <img src="../img/cli-getting-started/angular/chapter0/NativeScript_logo.png" class="plain" alt="NativeScript logo">
  <p><a href="https://www.nativescript.org/">NativeScript</a> is a free and open source framework for building native iOS and Android apps using JavaScript and CSS. NativeScript renders UIs with the native platform’s rendering engine—no <a href="http://developer.telerik.com/featured/what-is-a-webview/">WebViews</a>—resulting in native-like performance and UX.</p>
</div>

<div class="intro-box">
  <img src="../img/cli-getting-started/angular/chapter0/Angular_logo.png" class="plain" alt="Angular logo">
  <p><a href="https://angular.io/">Angular</a> is one of the most popular open source JavaScript frameworks for application development. The latest version of Angular makes it possible to use the framework outside of a web browser, and developers at <a href="https://www.progress.com/">Progress</a>—the company that created and maintains NativeScript—<a href="http://angularjs.blogspot.com/2015/12/building-mobile-apps-with-angular-2-and.html">worked closely with developers at Google for over a year</a> to make Angular in NativeScript a reality.</p>
</div>

The result is a software architecture that allows you to build mobile apps using the same framework—and in some cases the same code—that you use to build Angular web apps, with the performance you’d expect from native code. Let’s look at how it all works by building an app.

> **NOTE**: If you spot any issues while completing this guide, let us know on our [Angular GitHub repo](https://github.com/NativeScript/nativescript-angular/issues).

## 0.2: Prerequisites

This guide assumes that you have some basic knowledge of JavaScript, CSS, and your development machine’s terminal. More specifically:

* **JavaScript**: You should know basic JavaScript concepts, such as how functions, if statements, and loops work.
* **CSS**: You should know how to write simple CSS selectors, and know how to apply CSS rules as name/value pairs.
* **The terminal**: You should know how to open a terminal or command-line prompt on your development machine, how to change directories, and how to execute commands.
* **A text editor or IDE**: You should know the basics of your text editor or IDE of choice. You can use any text editor to build NativeScript apps, however, for the best possible experience you may want an editor with built-in TypeScript support, such as [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/).

This guide will _not_ assume you have any knowledge of Angular or TypeScript. When background Angular or TypeScript expertise will help you understand a concept, this guide will link you to the appropriate places in the [Angular](https://angular.io/docs/ts/latest/) or [TypeScript](http://www.typescriptlang.org/Handbook) documentation.

## 0.3: Installation

In order to start this tutorial you need to have the NativeScript CLI (command-line interface) installed on your development machine, which you can do using the link below.

* [Complete the NativeScript installation guide](/start/quick-setup)

> **TIP**: Setting up your machine for native development can be tricky, especially if you’re new to mobile development. Here are a few tips you might find useful.
> * You can [complete a version of this tutorial in NativeScript Playground](https://play.nativescript.org/?template=groceries-ng&tutorial=groceries-ng). NativeScript Playground is a browser-based environment that lets you develop apps without needing to configure your local development environment.
> * If you get stuck going through the installation process, the [NativeScript community forum](http://forum.nativescript.org/) is a great place to get help.

With that out of the way, let’s get started building apps with NativeScript!

<div class="next-chapter-link-container">
  <a href="ng-chapter-1">Continue to Chapter 1—Getting Up and Running</a>
</div>

Commit message:

chapter 0 tutorial updates for sidekick mention
adding a "tip" to install sidekick and have the dependencies installed
for you. also focusing the forum link to the getting started category.

docs/tutorial/ng-chapter-0.md, after:

---
title: Building Apps with NativeScript and Angular
description: Learn the basics of how NativeScript and Angular work, how to set up your system, and how to create your first app
position: 1
guide: true
environment: angular
---

# Building Apps with NativeScript and Angular

Welcome to the NativeScript & Angular getting started guide. In this hands-on tutorial, you’ll build a cross-platform iOS and Android app from scratch.

## Table of contents

- [0.1: What is NativeScript? What is Angular?](#01-what-is-nativescript-what-is-angular)
- [0.2: Prerequisites](#02-prerequisites)
- [0.3: Installation](#03-installation)

> **TIP**: If you’re a video learner, the third-party site NativeScripting has a [free video course](https://nativescripting.com/course/nativescript-with-angular-getting-started-guide) that walks you through this guide step by step.

## 0.1: What is NativeScript? What is Angular?

<div class="intro-box">
  <img src="../img/cli-getting-started/angular/chapter0/NativeScript_logo.png" class="plain" alt="NativeScript logo">
  <p><a href="https://www.nativescript.org/">NativeScript</a> is a free and open source framework for building native iOS and Android apps using JavaScript and CSS. NativeScript renders UIs with the native platform’s rendering engine—no <a href="http://developer.telerik.com/featured/what-is-a-webview/">WebViews</a>—resulting in native-like performance and UX.</p>
</div>

<div class="intro-box">
  <img src="../img/cli-getting-started/angular/chapter0/Angular_logo.png" class="plain" alt="Angular logo">
  <p><a href="https://angular.io/">Angular</a> is one of the most popular open source JavaScript frameworks for application development. The latest version of Angular makes it possible to use the framework outside of a web browser, and developers at <a href="https://www.progress.com/">Progress</a>—the company that created and maintains NativeScript—<a href="http://angularjs.blogspot.com/2015/12/building-mobile-apps-with-angular-2-and.html">worked closely with developers at Google for over a year</a> to make Angular in NativeScript a reality.</p>
</div>

The result is a software architecture that allows you to build mobile apps using the same framework—and in some cases the same code—that you use to build Angular web apps, with the performance you’d expect from native code. Let’s look at how it all works by building an app.

> **NOTE**: If you spot any issues while completing this guide, let us know on our [Angular GitHub repo](https://github.com/NativeScript/nativescript-angular/issues).

## 0.2: Prerequisites

This guide assumes that you have some basic knowledge of JavaScript, CSS, and your development machine’s terminal. More specifically:

* **JavaScript**: You should know basic JavaScript concepts, such as how functions, if statements, and loops work.
* **CSS**: You should know how to write simple CSS selectors, and know how to apply CSS rules as name/value pairs.
* **The terminal**: You should know how to open a terminal or command-line prompt on your development machine, how to change directories, and how to execute commands.
* **A text editor or IDE**: You should know the basics of your text editor or IDE of choice. You can use any text editor to build NativeScript apps, however, for the best possible experience you may want an editor with built-in TypeScript support, such as [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/).

This guide will _not_ assume you have any knowledge of Angular or TypeScript. When background Angular or TypeScript expertise will help you understand a concept, this guide will link you to the appropriate places in the [Angular](https://angular.io/docs/ts/latest/) or [TypeScript](http://www.typescriptlang.org/Handbook) documentation.

## 0.3: Installation

In order to start this tutorial you need to have the NativeScript CLI (command-line interface) installed on your development machine, which you can do using the link below.

* [Complete the NativeScript installation guide](/start/quick-setup)

> **TIP**: Setting up your machine for native development can be tricky, especially if you’re new to mobile development. Here are a few tips you might find useful.
> * You can [complete a version of this tutorial in NativeScript Playground](https://play.nativescript.org/?template=groceries-ng&tutorial=groceries-ng). NativeScript Playground is a browser-based environment that lets you develop apps without needing to configure your local development environment.
> * [NativeScript Sidekick](https://www.nativescript.org/nativescript-sidekick) is a one-click setup experience for macOS, Windows, and Linux. Sidekick installs the NativeScript CLI and required dependencies for macOS and Windows - and offers starter kits, cloud-based builds for iOS and Android, and app store publishing. Install Sidekick and resume your tutorial with the CLI pre-installed for you.
> * If you get stuck going through the installation process, the [NativeScript community forum](https://discourse.nativescript.org/c/getting-started) is a great place to get help.

With that out of the way, let’s get started building apps with NativeScript!

<div class="next-chapter-link-container">
  <a href="ng-chapter-1">Continue to Chapter 1—Getting Up and Running</a>
</div>
